---
title: '2025-07-01'
tags: [Tuesday]

---

---
tags: Tuesday
---

# 2025-07-01

Attending: Petr, Dom, JM, Andreas, Khaled, Frances, Kyle, David, Seb, Chris, Jason, Melissa, Kevin

Start: 2:00 pm UK

## Accepting minutes from [last meeting](https://hackmd.io/team/ome?nav=overview)

## Project Status

(2-3 minutes each)

- IDR
    - Working on prod128, waiting for some images from submitter. Khaled looking into timeout tile loading errors.
    - New studies will be idr0151 (drosophila, antibody staining).

- OMERO
    - OMERO.web: no updates
    - [OMERO.server 5.6.16](https://www.openmicroscopy.org/2025/06/26/omero-5-6-16.html) - released
    - Working on micro services and integrated testing of components

- Bio-Formats
    - Not much. Slowing down because of summer holidays. Working on 8.3.0 though, release after summer, probably Sept.
    - JM: Because of website migration, ome schema validation with xmlvalid utility didn't work. - https://github.com/ome/bioformats/issues/4313 

- NGFF
    - JM: Good progress with Will on image "registration". Using public zarrs. Should work now with anonymous and auth. Going to open PRs from OME repository against Glencoe repository. 
    - Supported version is 0.4. Seb: Priority probably to support newer versions than backwards compatibility. Chris: Reason for that was AWS.
    - JM/Dom: Work on build system for merge build for testing.
    - Techdev: Newcastle group pushing for viewer (biongff viewer), will present at next NGFF meeting.https://github.com/BioNGFF/biongff-viewer Will also present demo on registration workflow.
    - Dom: Will also open PR from OME for the axes support.

- GerBI

- Glencoe
    - Chris: Upgrading microservice infrastructure. Vertex3 -> 4. 
    - Glencoe meeting next week in Edinburgh, probably miss next Tue meeting.

- Community
    - Jason: Josh and I attended BioImagingUK meeting.  Lots of discussion on OME -Zarr, etc. and also the Skills project 
    - Workshop in India. Follow-ups on server installations
    - Next outreach will be Brno in Dec.

## AOB

(5 min. max; tech. Discussion should be highlighted to relevant people and rescheduled)
- Frances: Shall we have meeting next week? JM: Maybe cancel, have to check with Tom and Josh.

## Main Topic

(20-25 minutes plus 15 minutes questions max)
