---
title: '2025-04-01'
tags: [Tuesday]

---

---
tags: Tuesday
---

# 2025-04-01

Attending: Will, Petr, Dom, JM, Josh, Frances, Chris, Khaled, Andreas, Erin, Kyle, Kevin, David, Seb, 

Start: 2:00 pm UK

## Accepting minutes from [last meeting](https://hackmd.io/team/ome?nav=overview)

## Project Status

(2-3 minutes each)

- IDR Frances:
    - EBI microscopy course this week
    - Helping OME-Zarr conversions from submitters
    - IDR to BIA submissions via Globus - testing new workflow for new non-Zarr submissions

- OMERO
    - OMERO 5.6.15 release - planned for tomorrow
    - OMERO.web - looking at the next release
    - [Numpy 2 support](https://github.com/ome/omero-py/pull/445)
        - OME CI upgraded to use Python 3.11
        - JM: will do a final test in collab notebook

- Bio-Formats Seb:
    - [Infrastructure & development update](https://forum.image.sc/t/bio-formats-infrastructure-development-updates/110852) posted on image.sc
    - Backlog on hold for now
    - Looking at alternative places to run ci tests
    - Future file submissions should be public

- NGFF Josh:
  - [NGFF weekly dev update](https://forum.image.sc/t/ngff-weekly-dev-update-thread/110810) . Hope to get others to contribute. What frequency? What updates from OME team?
    - FLIM discussions with companies. Submit sample data.
    - 0.6.dev.1 new branch for RFC-5
  - Viewer status discussions in TechDev meetings.
      - Planning new React viewer built on viv
  - [geo.json to spatialdata](https://imagesc.zulipchat.com/#narrow/channel/329057-scverse/topic/spatialdata.20.26.20geojson) 
  - Will: [ome-zarr-py Zarr v3](https://github.com/ome/ome-zarr-py/pull/404) is now green

- GerBI Josh:
    - TIM last week. Lots of new data.

- Glencoe Chris:
    - Bio-Formats testing discussions ongoing
    - Back from ABRF meeting last week, off to Bio-IT meeting this week (presenting and sponsoring with booth): https://www.bio-itworldexpo.com/data-management#2 (Marc Bruce, Erin and Jason)

- Community Petr:
    - EBI-EMBL course this week
    - Discussed workshops at OME2025 (Petr, JM, Will, Jason attending)

## AOB

(5 min. max; tech. Discussion should be highlighted to relevant people and rescheduled)

## Main Topic

(20-25 minutes plus 15 minutes questions max)
