---
title: '2025-01-14'
tags: [Tuesday]

---

---
tags: Tuesday
---

# 2024-01-14

Attending: Will, JM, Dom, Petr, Frances, Chris, Jason, Tom, Khaled, Andreas, Seb, Kyle, Erin, Kevin, Melissa, 

Start: 2:00 pm UK

## Accepting minutes from [last meeting](https://hackmd.io/team/ome?nav=overview)

## Project Status

(2-3 minutes each)

- IDR Frances:
    - Getting up to speed, testing and validation. E.g. OME-Zarr (from .ims conversion) needs to be "series 0" only. 
    - iviewer PR (deployed on idr-testing) to limit active channels to 10 (according to microservices)

- OMERO
    - nightshade upgrade of OMERO.figure and fix user group perms tomorrow 11.00 - 11.45
    - OMERO.figure discussion, hopefully next week

- Bio-Formats
    - Next release 8.1.0 first week of Feb. Most changes already in.
    - Open PRs reviewed

- NGFF
    - zarr-python v3.0.0 released :+1: 
    - Will: updating [ome-zarr-py](https://github.com/ome/ome-zarr-py/pull/404) with recent (pre-release) changes in zarr-python. Also waiting on Dask to do the same.
    - Will: also been looking at [removing ome-zarr-py from napari-ome-zarr](https://github.com/ome/napari-ome-zarr/pull/123).
    - Also been testing ngff-zarr for scaling etc.
    - RFC 5 under review. Discussion with Josh later on  (this week. Notes at https://docs.google.com/document/d/12twRs-ooWBthDHlVagpi8d5gYDKF5mDHAjwlOAj2zxA/edit?tab=t.0

- GerBI (Tom)
    - Single authentication - user feature request. Is this supported anywhere?
    - Chris: Single-sign-on is supported in OMERO-plus. But it can be tricky. We support about 60% of use-cases. Makes it harder to login via Insight (need to go via web to get tokens etc.). Harder to support than LDAP. No support for groups or roles (no standard here)

- Glencoe
    - Chris: need public statement about Spring vulnerability (doesn't affect our usage)
    - 

- Community
    - Petr: Annual Karolinska OMERO-fest. OMERO.figure workshop 12th Feb. Zoom. Students already uploading images to our outreach server.
    - Prep for Consortium Kick-off Meeting (Jan 27) -- [Draft Agenda](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1PepxKpTNi03egvEkG1EWAMijr16yUpxTMf7yQA0_qZw/edit?tab=t.0)
        - Open-source pre-meeting chat tomorrow 10:00.
    - Servers for UGM (Yogyakarta) - reviewing specs
    - Sad news

## AOB

(5 min. max; tech. Discussion should be highlighted to relevant people and rescheduled)

## Main Topic

(20-25 minutes plus 15 minutes questions max)
