---
title: '2025-06-17'
tags: [Tuesday]

---

---
tags: Tuesday
---

# 2025-06-17

Attending: Will, Frances, Khaled, Andreas, Seb, Chris, Kevin, Josh, Melissa,

Start: 2:00 pm UK

## Accepting minutes from [last meeting](https://hackmd.io/team/ome?nav=overview)

## Project Status

(2-3 minutes each)

- IDR (Frances):
    - prod128 ongoing with 2 new studies, landing pages and searchengine update, omero-zarr-pixel-buffer

- OMERO
    - OMERO.web 5.29.1 release: https://github.com/ome/omero-web/pull/627/files. Release later if no objections
    - [OMERO.py 5.21.0](https://github.com/ome/omero-py/releases/tag/v5.21.0) released
    - Working towards OMERO.server 5.6.16
        - All `org.openmicroscopy:omero-*` dependencies upgraded including several transitive dependency upgrades - see for instance [omero-server 5.7.3](https://github.com/ome/omero-server/releases/tag/v5.7.3)
        - [Bio-Formats 8.2.0](https://github.com/ome/bioformats/releases/tag/v8.2.0)
        - [OMERO.scripts 5.9.1](https://github.com/ome/omero-scripts/releases/tag/v5.9.1)
        - Final touches next week when JM & Petr back

- Bio-Formats (Melissa)
    - away next week

- NGFF (Josh)
    - OME-Zarr Roadmap: met in Heidelberg last week (Virginie and Norman) to discuss general shape of the 1.0 process. Will be reaching out to interested parties on upcoming RFCs.
    - Community meeting next week
    - Interviews for GerBI positions running through July/August.
    - Will: [ome-zarr-py v0.5 support](https://github.com/ome/ome-zarr-py/pull/413) now with v0.5 tests. Ready for review (and rc ?)
    - Will: Trying to use omero-zarr-pixel-buffer with Masks. Testing on pilot-idr9999, Image:15177549. No joy so far (with iviewer)!

- GerBI (Josh)
  - https://omero-nfdi.uni-muenster.de/ online. Still working on SLA (what do we promise to users?). Sign-up is enabled if interested. omero-zarr-pixel-buffer not installed.
      - Seb: what is purpose of this server? Josh: "rich" OMERO, or "sandbox". E.g. OpenLink, "all" plugins working together. 
      - Multiple Admins can install plugins etc. No Ansible, not "production".

- Glencoe (Chris)
    - meetings (see last week)
    - ongoing maintenance
    - Seb: been reviewing omero-zarr-pixel-buffer contributions from Dom. 

- Community
  - Website meetings (Josh). Glencoe not cc'd on e-mail list. Josh will advise that list be enlarged. 
    - Melissa: report from that meeting to this one? Josh: yes, would be good to organise

## AOB

(5 min. max; tech. Discussion should be highlighted to relevant people and rescheduled)

## Main Topic

(20-25 minutes plus 15 minutes questions max)
