---
title: '2025-05-27'
tags: [Tuesday]

---

---
tags: Tuesday
---

# 2025-05-27

Attending: Will, Josh, Dom, Khaled, Seb, Frances, Kyle, Andreas, Jason, Chris, Melissa, Kevin, Petr, 

Start: 2:00 pm UK

## Accepting minutes from [last meeting](https://hackmd.io/team/ome?nav=overview)

## Project Status

(2-3 minutes each)

- IDR (Frances):
    - prod128 - 2 new studies idr0151. Drosophilia idr0166 - myelin basic protein - brain images. Broken image to be re-uploaded
    - searchengine testing ongoing.

- OMERO
    - OMERO.server (Seb)
        - Dependencies upgraded to address several CVEs with critical severity
        - Looking into upgrades for CVEs with high severity and general cleanup of unnecessary dependencies
        - Proposed next steps
            - Merge CodeQL workflows across all `omero-*` Java components by EOB
            - Start releasing Java components after the inclusion of Bio-Formats 8.2.0 in omero-model
            - Draft advisories for critical CVEs not applicable to OMERO
            - Release of OMERO components to follow up-coming Bio-Formats release
    - OMERO.web (Andreas)
        - two new PRs to be reviewed from David and Seb
    
- Bio-Formats
    - 8.2.0 release planned for today. Will talk to Seb after

- NGFF (Josh)
  - Javascript discussion with Trevor: Zod work up for maintainership. vizarr future uncertain
    - ITK being further developed
  - Python discussion:
    - ome-zarr-models-py: hopefully a minimal version (no pydantic and zarr v3 dependency)
    - ngff-zarr: full support for up to 0.5
    - Will: ome-zarr-py can now read 0.5. Writing is limited to 0.4. 
      -[#404](https://github.com/ome/ome-zarr-py/pull/) - Use zarr v3, read OME-Zarr v0.4 and v0.5 but ONLY write v0.4.
      - Propose to get an RC with the breaking change out
  - [Java](https://docs.google.com/document/d/10593fXrZ2pn74MstQIURSr7VIQxQaRz2hc90lQuOrZE/edit?tab=t.0) discussion (Dom)
      - https://central.sonatype.org/news/20250326_ossrh_sunset/#what-does-this-mean
    - Dom/JM: Import workflows set up on merge-ci using zarr-pixel buffer
    - Working on supporting zarr without ome.xml metadata file and file stored on AWS. Create ome.xml first from zarr. 
    - Josh: source.coop various issues:
      - no CORS or range-requests and 502s rather than 404s

- GerBI (Josh)
  - Metadata discussions: NFDI working group. Hackathon work on omero-marshal.
  - GerBI OMERO server for testing prototypes, e.g. like gallery. Munster hosted, public. 

- Glencoe - see above

- Community
    - ELMI (4th June 14:30)
    - India trip - VMs provided by Kobe
    - Brno training - repeat of last year

## AOB

(5 min. max; tech. Discussion should be highlighted to relevant people and rescheduled)

## Main Topic

(20-25 minutes plus 15 minutes questions max)
