---
tags: Tuesday
---

# 2023-07-18

Attending: J-M, Frances, Petr, June, Dominik, Seb, Kevin, Khaled, Melissa, David, Kyle, Chris, Andreas, David, Maadhav, Erin, Tom, Muhanad

Start: 2:00 pm UK

## Accepting minutes from [last meeting](https://hackmd.io/team/ome?nav=overview)

## Project Status

(2-3 minutes each)

- IDR
    - New compound screen idr0119 released yesterday
    - Working on next release over next few weeks, aim to release mid-August
    - Upgrade for OME-NGFF planned for October, release of new studies by November
    - JM: We should publish the above roadmap for submitters
    - Frances: yes
    - DB upgrade is only for IDR evaluation, we will not give it as a solid workflow for community (yet)

- OMERO
    - JM: catching up, new upgrades of software, will do a series of openmicroscopy releases, will have a look at releasing some components (model and the whole stack)
    - openmicroscopy package will include the latest B-Fs
    - histogram will be included
    - Chris: opened an issue https://github.com/ome/omero-blitz/issues/141 - long running bug in the importer system, affecting every OMERO install, will require lot of testing and planning
    - Chris: Will do an initial investigation and plan testing

- Bio-Formats
    - David: Last week updates ZarrReader - will address some issues with file swapping (for IDR)
    - fixed automatic publishing in Fiji, can now access ZarrReader via Fiji update site
    - B-F release at the end of July
    - JM: Let us have more people involved in B-F release

- NGFF
    - release of an NGFF tool from Glencoe

- GerBI
    - Tom: Lets talk about webtagging. Integration into the CI system: ongoing work, discussion with JM.

- Glencoe
    - Chris: NGFF converter UI released 10 days ago
    - Underlying OMERO.server issues (see above)
    - SSl and TLS related issues and fix them in our client libraries, clean up in the Java stack, bring things in line with the Python stack
    - Erin is setting things up for late summer and autumn meetings to be attended
    - JM: Infrastructure call this morning: Reviewing the post about CentOS 7 EOL
    - JM: Will Glencoe work on the ice binding for Rocky Linux ?
    - Seb: Yes, I have something in the pipeline. Timeline is before end of July to be tested in August.
    - Chris: We will need the ice binding for the TLS work. Need to make decisions about what to support and what not.
    - JM: Seb, can you summarize call with Gulliame yesterday ? 
    - Seb: Based on the discussion, the skills and interest of the France Bioimaging will not be on coding level, rather deploying, some overlap with GerBI, still deciding on docker, on ansible. In terms of testing, also less ability on pure hardware infrastructure, but some potential for testing. These are preliminary discussions. More calls in August.

- Community
    - JM and Petr were in Japan, ABiS-GBI course - interested and enthusisatic group of people from Africa, India and East Asian countries
    - JM and Petr going to Canada nad US end July and August
    - New outreach in Barcelona planned in week of 6th November 2023

## AOB

(5 min. max; tech. Discussion should be highlighted to relevant people and rescheduled)

## Main Topic

(20-25 minutes plus 15 minutes questions max)
