---
tags: Tuesday
---

# 2023-06-20

Attending: Will, June, JM, Frances, David, Khaled, Melissa, Seb, Erin, Kyle, Chris, Richard Acton, Jason, Maadhav, Andreas, Muhanad

Start: 2:00 pm UK

## Accepting minutes from [last meeting](https://hackmd.io/team/ome?nav=overview)

## Project Status

(2-3 minutes each)

- IDR (Frances):
    - released prod116 yesterday with idr0147 and fixes for idr0088 and idr0044
    - Catch-up with SSBD on Thurs 10:00 meeting
    - Meeting with Matthew last Friday on NGFF submissions
    - Khaled search: upgrading elasticsearch
    - Interest in IDR-like UI (gallery) from [Jax public data](https://images.jax.org/). 


- OMERO (JM)
    - merge-ci restored
    - latest-ci update ongoing
    - Artifact release planned but not reviewed yet - JM away next week, then to Japan. Anyone else able to take over?
        - Seb: need reviewer and someone to release
    - Andreas - web PR reviews. Need CLA
    - Django 4.0-compatible web apps released
    - Will: Also need to look at merge-ci Django "secure" https vv http
    - Need to merge parade and iviewer PRs (build fixes)
    - Next: Django 4.2 (Will)
    - Some interest on OMERO call yesterday to join weekly web call.

- Bio-Formats
    - 2 releases (minor and major) on course for end of the month (or maybe 1 week later)
        - Dicom - recent activity needs reviewed
        - Try to involve others in testing and release
        - Release process in doc - needs splitting up etc
    - Jason: thanks to Melissa and Seb on woolz deprecation

- NGFF
    - meeting with Matthew on NGFF submission to BioStudies (see above)
    - Chris: dimension flexibility in v0.4 makes it harder to map to OMERO etc. SpatialData examples
    - Josh: aware of FLIM data in NGFF but how?

- GerBI (Josh)
    - NFDI Kick-off - Software dev meeting

- Glencoe
    - omero-web stuff we need to do
    - OpenSSL CentOS7 issue - address via omero-certificates
        - maybe needs blog post
    - Erin: attending https://www.angelolab.com/spatial-biology-workshop 

- Community
  - Comments from [OMERO Development Priorities Meeting](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Iepb9D06Xt3UH32IqlzGnumOZkiGz8I77CxrXP7rkUY/edit).
      - Some interest in ci / testing
      - Others might join Tuesday 10am meeting (after summer)
      - Also need data in/out meeting
      - need dedicated dev meetings
      - Do we make meetings more public? Need agenda, chair person etc.
  - Follow up email coming....
  - Richard - deploying OMERO on EBI cloud

## AOB

(5 min. max; tech. Discussion should be highlighted to relevant people and rescheduled)

## Main Topic

(20-25 minutes plus 15 minutes questions max)
