---
tags: Tuesday
---

# 2023-08-29

Attending: Will, Dom, JM, Frances, June, Jason, Josh, Petr, Khaled, Seb, Maadhav, Andreas, Melissa, Kyle, Chris, David, 

Start: 2:00 pm UK

## Accepting minutes from [last meeting](https://hackmd.io/team/ome?nav=overview)

## Project Status

(2-3 minutes each)

- IDR
    - transfer storage: in progress with EBI. We have access
    - NGFF (Will)
      - Conversions almost done. idr0090 has 2 remaining plates.
      - Most studies submitted to BIA. Being processed to S3 (unzipped)
      - Testing migrated datasets with [omero-mkngff](https://github.com/IDR/omero-mkngff) on idr0125 and idr0138.
      - Holding pattern for upcoming idr-next server.
      - Then 10-15 minutes per fileset setup. Updates are quick. Images only viewable after a delay. ~1hour. (Weird)
          - logs or perf4j to look at memoization times

- OMERO
  - bug fixes in insight. Ready for release
  - infra: work in progress on the various repos: omeroweb-install and omero-install work done with instructions for Rocky 9 and Ubuntu 22.04. 
  - next omero-web release to coincide with omero-py release

- Bio-Formats
    - David: catching up from AL
    - Next week: review
    - ZarrReader:
        - IDR NGFF work.
        - Distribution via eg. BFtools

- NGFF (Josh)
  - Another [fun thread](https://forum.image.sc/t/saving-volumetric-data-with-voxel-size-colormap-annotations/85537) around OME-Zarr usability. Would be great if community organise a meeting/chat
  - Zeiss looking for a C++ Zarr library (LTS versioning?)
      - export of OME-Zarr from Zen

- GerBI (Josh)
    - ansible + openstack: issues getting started
    - testing of new omero-autotag and omero-tagsearch

- Glencoe (Chris)
    - https://github.com/ome/omero-certificates/pull/36 important
        - updates to clients and server needed
        - Releases out - need docs with versions to use with RHEL7 & CentOS7
        - JM: will update merge-ci.
    -  performance issues - will discuss proposals with Kevin: Spring, Hibernate etc. Improve perf with large numbers of Groups/Members 

- Community
    - Petr: discussing with Richard Acton - 1-day workshop in London 12th Sept.
    - Just back from Japan, Canada, US.
    - Coming up EAST-Bio in Dundee

## AOB

(5 min. max; tech. Discussion should be highlighted to relevant people and rescheduled)

## Main Topic

(20-25 minutes plus 15 minutes questions max)
