---
tags: Tuesday
---

# 2023-05-16

Attending: Will, Josh, Frances, Petr, Khaled, Jean-Marie, Maadhav, Seb, Richard, Chris, June, Andreas, Tom, Kyle, David, Melissa, Jason, Kevin, David Stirling, 

Start: 2:00 pm UK

## Accepting minutes from [last meeting](https://github.com/ome/meeting-minutes)
  - Review location of meeting minutes and upda

## Project Status

(2-3 minutes each)

- IDR (Frances):
    - Globus connection issues - ongoing work with EBI
    - Format reader issues - idr0088 and idr0044
    - Search engine permissions meeting - just IDR, then wider to include Glencoe
    - Will: progress with NGFF Fileset swapping, working with idr0012
    - Jason: how long till we can release something?
    - Will: Not till all studies done - quite a long time
    - JM: NB: this still requires psql steps - since not supported by API

- OMERO:
    - Cookies settings PR for web
    - JM: Django 4.0 support: can't test on merge-ci (python3.6) - lots of work to update. Need to decide on priority to spend time to upgrade. Busy till early June. Need to organise a discussion then
    - Seb: Glencoe testing with Django 4.0 is looking good. Could release omero-web and/or apps as working with Django 3.2.
    - Jason: plan time soon

- Bio-Formats (David)
    - idr work (see above)
    - 2 large external PRs - new/updated Readers Nikon, and Zeiss reader rewrite to fix perf issue

- NGFF (Josh)
  - Papers - all submitted except 1 (later this week)
      - contact from Nature journalist...
  - HMS presentation - Vitessce etc
  - Resources (website, etc)
      - Meeting on Fridays
      - Logo in time for paper?
  - Specifications
    - 0.5.0 - calls with Kevin & John on their PRs
    - Beyond (Zarr V3)
        - Spec agreed on
        - Movement started on various implementations, e.g Rust
        - OME will need to decide when to adopt

- GerBI (Tom)
    - webtagging
        - No response from Douglas
        - fork -> tag search & auto-tagging apps
        - JM: try David Pinto?
    - pico-quant - work to support OMERO import

- Glencoe
  - OMERO/SSL/Ciphers
    - https://github.com/ome/omero-server-docker/pull/78
    - https://github.com/ome/omero-documentation/pull/2315
    - End of CentOS7 support needs to be discussed
    - Preparing to end new installs 
    - Rocky 8 or 9 for new RHEL targets
    - Ubuntu also possible, not used by OME
    - JM: lot of work to move off CentOS7
    - Chris: 13 months till CentOS7 EOL
  - ABRF meeting went well - lots of interest in NGFF by commercial and others
  - BioIT world this week

- Community
  - Frances: Ongoing prep for next week EBI imaging course (Monday, presenting Thurs/Fri) and ICOPs workshop (EOSC related) on Ontologies (related to https://open-phytoliths.github.io/FAIR-phytoliths/).
  - JM presenting end of June - notebooks. Related to https://open-phytoliths.github.io/FAIR-phytoliths/
  - Petr: Defragmentation workshop last week - cloud computing, Jupyter notebooks with NGFF, OMERO etc.
  - University of Gadja Mada - Indonesia, training pathologists. Petr tending to demo.
  - [AHRI](https://www.ahri.org/scientist/adrie-steyn/) and [SATVI/UCT](https://health.uct.ac.za/satvi) 
      - large scale pathology work on TB

## AOB

(5 min. max; tech. Discussion should be highlighted to relevant people and rescheduled)

## Main Topic

(20-25 minutes plus 15 minutes questions max)
