---
tags: Tuesday
---

# 2023-01-17

Attending: Will, Petr, Dom, Josh, Jean-Marie, Frances, Chris, Tom, Richard, David, Seb, June, Jason, Khaled, Kyle, Wilma, Andreas, David Stirling, Melissa,

Start: 2:00 pm UK

## Accepting minutes from [last meeting](https://github.com/ome/meeting-minutes)

## Project Status

(2-3 minutes each)

- IDR (Frances)
    - prod113 released this morning. idr0137 and idr0145
    - HPA antibodies (9 datasets to follow in next release)
    - Next release to focus on search work (search for studies)
    - Aiming to release 30th January
    - Jason: tweets? Frances: yes, after meeting

- OMERO (JM)
  - omero-web release 5.17.0 is out
  - Removed draft from dependencies related PR (included in the build tomorrow) and Chris's session PR
  - web planning call tomorrow
  - Will: figure update ongoing - needs CI update (node.js)

- Bio-Formats (David)
    - Reviewing open PRs for next release - end of month

- NGFF
  - multiplexed meeting in ZÃ¼rich (last week)
    - good feedback and lots of interest
    - ...including in **R**: to image or not to image (user Python for images and R for tabluar data)
    - Fractal framework is interested: https://github.com/fractal-analytics-platform
    - SpatialData & Parquet
      - Chris: seems to be a +1 for the strategy of opaque things in Zarr.
  - calls (recent and upcoming):
    - Janelia: new FAIR appointment
    - ITK
    - HDF
    - Zeiss
  - zarr-java:
    - community interest in "support" of jzarr
    - status?
      - Chris: need to get back to scalableminds and get a roadmap worked out.
      - Plan for what to do with some of the libraries in the interim.
      - i.e. get dependencies into a state that people can work on them.
      - ETA end of January.
  - paper
    - nearly text from all
    - next: work on figures
    - Frances: upcoming light sheet data that might be useful
  - tables spec
    - what it takes to get it over the line?
    - Will: only one dataset
    - don't think it will currently support spatialdata
    - Will: have used prototype repo from Kevin.
    - Josh: need to start working towards implementations if the specification is solid(ifying).

- GerBI (Tom):
    - Hive OMERO installation: connection issues accessing Hive (server itself is fine). Windows/Hive.
    - websockets is potential solution, or running Ubuntu on Windows
    - Chris: how installing omero-py? Tom: using conda

- Glencoe (Chris):
    - see above

- Community
  - Meeting OME-SSBD.  Dundee ~Mar 1-6
  - From Carole Goble: EOSC-Life Defragmentation TS2 and THE NEUBIAS conference, Porto, 8-12 May 2023
  - see https://www.openmicroscopy.org/events/ :tada:
  - Chris: associate staff -- anything we need to do? JRS: everyone renewed.
    - Wilma: unclear whether or not that means an ID card. Definitely a staff ID number.

## AOB

- OME Team: Annual Leave

(5 min. max; tech. Discussion should be highlighted to relevant people and rescheduled)

## Main Topic

(20-25 minutes plus 15 minutes questions max)
