---
tags: Tuesday
---

# 2023-05-23

Attending: Frances, Dom, June, Khaled, Petr, David, J-M, Seb, Muhanad, Kyle, Jason, Josh, Melissa, Maadhav, Kevin, Suzanne, Andreas, David S, Tom B, Will, 

Start: 2:00 pm UK

## Accepting minutes from [last meeting](https://github.com/ome/meeting-minutes)

## Project Status

(2-3 minutes each)

- IDR (Frances)
    - Globus is working again! :)
        - Can restart work on new studies
    - Ongoing fix for idr0088 format. To be included in next release
    - David working on idr0044 format fix
    - NGFF conversion: re-import of converted NGFF data will take too long. Need to generate SQL to create Filesets. Josh has something working - need to integrate with Will's scripts
    - Seb: NGFF upgrade
    - JM: call next week to discuss OS updates etc.

- OMERO
  - proposal: 
      - release [Histogram change](https://github.com/ome/omero-server/pull/162) as part of an openmicroscopy release. Also include Bio-Formats version bump
      - test the [final step](https://github.com/openmicroscopy/management_tools/pull/1671) of the release process allowing people without access to Dundee machines to do a release.
      - web release to follow

- Bio-Formats
    - idr0044 fix (above): PR updated just now to fix remaining issues.
    - Discussed with Nico on Zeiss reader. Will become an external reader
    - Leica reader - still waiting on sample data

- NGFF
  - cf. https://www.medrxiv.org/content/10.1101/2022.12.21.22283654v1 interested in using NGFF
  - jzarr forked & pushed to maven central
  - Norman - blosc project
  - JM: will include NGFF on EBI course

- GerBI
    - Tom: webtagging to be transferred to Tom -> GerBI
    - JM: First task to support Django 4.0
    - Josh: How much to centralise the CI testing? Integrate webtagging into merge-ci?
    - Josh: re web meeting every Friday: aware of other "working groups" evolving. Doing their own thing? Need to discuss communication channels

- Glencoe
    - 

- Community
  - EMBL-EBI Course
  - Upcoming OMERO Development Meeting 19th/20th June

## AOB

(5 min. max; tech. Discussion should be highlighted to relevant people and rescheduled)

## Main Topic

(20-25 minutes plus 15 minutes questions max)
