---
tags: Tuesday
---

# 2023-07-04

Attending: Josh (notes), Frances, June, Jason, Chris, Andreas, Sébastien, Tom, David Stirling, Muhanad

Start: 2:00 pm UK

## Accepting minutes from [last meeting](https://hackmd.io/team/ome?nav=overview)

## Project Status

(2-3 minutes each)

- IDR (Frances)
  - idr0119 is still importing (big screen). Should finish tomorrow for annotations. ETA: 17th of July
  - NGFF work is ongoing. current timeline is to have all datasets by September and upgrade by October
  - new submission is also asking for conversion to OME-Zarr
  - IDR invited for full application to [Global Biocore Data Resource](https://globalbiodata.org/scientific-activities/global-core-biodata-resources/)
    - JRS: consortium of funders that are trying to understand resources
    - previously reviewed for them
    - short application submitted
    - reviews picked up on needing more
    - most relevant: "why are you not a deposition resource? why are you an added value resource?"
    - will need usage stats, etc.
    - likely we take for granted what people know (e.g. SAB on the website)

- OMERO (Andreas)
  - couple of PRs re: Django 4.2 approved
  - Seb doing more testing
  - release slotted for when everyone returns from vacation
  - Seb: questions for Will etc. on return - how much of app compatibility do we want to roll together (figure, etc)

- Bio-Formats (David)
  - 6.14 release likely to go out tomorrow
  - Few more deprecation warnings added
  - One DICOM PR has been omitted. Slotted for 7.0.0
  - JRS: will look at the notes later today

- NGFF (Josh)
  - ZarrReader news
    - Adding to Bio-Formats (DEV) update site ([link](https://imagesc.zulipchat.com/#narrow/stream/328251-NGFF/topic/Bio-Formats.20Importer)
      - CA: dependencies between update sites?
      - JAM: no, can't auto-activate
      - Seb: additionally order matters (like readers.txt)
    - Learning symlinks, etc. for IDR+NGFF
  - Tables & transforms: upcoming community meetings
  - "OMEZarr" object: EMBL HD and others

- GerBI (Tom)
  - progressing on OMERO webtagging repositories
    - split into two parts.
    - next step: link pypi repositories for the next (automatic) release
    - Josh created https://pypi.org/user/gerbot/
    - Seb: re: transferring of repos, ETA for (mock) release so we can test?
    - 
  - working on in-place imports at HHU
    - see image.sc thread re: splitting with raw2ometiff
    - specifically geared towards image analysis needs

- Glencoe (Chris)
  - cleaning things up during the summer gap
  - for when people are back, do we bump to Django 4.2 as a req (i.e. when do we drop 3.2?)
  - infrastructure questions:
    - gunicorn has been dropped for about 3 years
    - new CGI protocol. need to see how it behaves with ICE
  - NGFF-Converter (David)
    - coming out with support for latest bioformats2raw
    - working on 2.0 to expand usage and the new API tools
    - no clear ETA (~few months)
    - 1.1.5 will hopefully be the last in that series

- Community
  - Ongoing workshop in Japan
  - JRS: community discussions
    - everything online, no objections to date
    - still interest in a meeting in Dundee

## AOB

(5 min. max; tech. Discussion should be highlighted to relevant people and rescheduled)

## Main Topic

(20-25 minutes plus 15 minutes questions max)
