---
tags: Tuesday
---

# 2024-04-23

Attending: Will, Dom, JM, Frances, Josh, June, Chris, Seb, Khaled, Petr, David, Kevin, David S, Melissa, Kyle, Andreas 

Start: 2:00 pm UK

## Accepting minutes from [last meeting](https://hackmd.io/team/ome?nav=overview)

## Project Status

(2-3 minutes each)

- IDR (Frances):
    - Dom importing idr0157 on idr-next (13 TB) aim to release by next week, including rocky9 update
    - idr-testing of NGFF update, looking good. 
    - Plan to release after next release
    - Will: looking at iviewer spinners (during movie playing)
    - Khaled: using caching for microservices. Testing looked good this morning.
    - microservices limited to 10 channels max - [configurable](https://github.com/glencoesoftware/omero-ms-image-region/blob/master/src/dist/conf/config.yaml#L12)
    - iviewer doesn't currently know about this limit or how to handle it

- OMERO
    - releasing OMERO model etc later this week
    - UI blocking PR in progress
    - OMERO.figure patch release last week
        - Ready for release of update with vite.js etc.
    - Petr testing nightshade upgrade to RHEL9

- Bio-Formats
    - 7.3.0 released (Java 21 compatibility etc).
    - 8.0.0 planning but no timeline yet
    - 

- NGFF
  - SpatialData news ([eg twitter](https://x.com/embl/status/1782713170932703710))
  - [RO-Crate](https://w3id.org/ro/crate/) could be used for Collections in NGFF. Proposal needs writing
  - Zarr v3 roadmap ([1777](https://github.com/zarr-developers/zarr-python/issues/1777))
    - May: alpha, June: release(-candidate)
    - Recent spec bugs (implicit groups, v2/v3 mixes - needs clarifying that this should be avoided)
    - Refactoring group (v3) to become zarr-python dev group
    - SciPy, PyData, NASA, oh my
  - Erin feedback?
  - Seb: Zarr v3 in NGFF? Wanted to get transforms out first, but may not be possible. Josh: want to push on v3 soon.
      - Melissa: Zarr Java needs work. Tricky to handle v2 and v3 at the same time. Josh: needs more thought/planning

- GerBI
    - Josh: OMERO workshops in preparation.
    - Funding: i3d ending
    - TIM 2025: planning on OMERO server install again

- Glencoe
    - ABRF meeting this week
    - Presented NGFF etc.
    - Seb: OMERO.figure export script fix to limit rendering plane size. Patch release?
        - JM: update action - will open PR

- Community
    - Only 1 external registration so far!
    - EBI course this week Thurs/Fri (JM, Petr, Frances)
    - JM: Internal OME tech talks on Tuesday meeting? Short topics, e.g. 15 mins
        - Chris: prep done for 2 talks e.g. server-side threading,

## AOB

(5 min. max; tech. Discussion should be highlighted to relevant people and rescheduled)

## Main Topic

(20-25 minutes plus 15 minutes questions max)
