---
tags: Tuesday
---

# 2024-02-13

Attending: Will, Dom, Petr, Frances, Josh, June, JM, Kevin, Jason, David S, Chris, Tom, Khaled, David, Maadhav, Melissa, Andreas, Kyle, 

Start: 2:00 pm UK

## Accepting minutes from [last meeting](https://hackmd.io/team/ome?nav=overview)

## Project Status

(2-3 minutes each)

- IDR (Frances):
    - NGFF issues: Khaled installing microservices working on idr-testing.
        - Need to regenerate cache. Will: Deleting first...
        - Chris: Just move it first, then can delete later
    - David working on ZarrReader memo file generation
        - e.g. idr0090 has large memo files ~110M slow to load. 
        - Lots of structured annotations from nd2 file
        - Stripping back annotations gives smaller file and this appears faster to load (testing with idr0090)
    - zipkin.io tracing used by Glencoe for microservices
        - Needs quite a bit of work to function properly
        - Josh: would like low-cost option to improve situation
        - Chris: can be more trouble than it's worth
        - Kevin: then you need prometheus & grafana to aggregate. Big ecosystem! Maintenance admin burden.
        - Chris: limited opensource tools. Better solutions have costs.

- OMERO
    - testing Python https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1zI3vlcTLp7okz_Mi2LHK40NxwCkGXUGHgDqgCd7jP_A/edit#gid=1254367109 (omero-py and omero-web python 3.12 support). Needs more testers (see sheet and add name).
    - Aim for Thursday? Using merge-ci server.
    - When done, can migrate merge-ci to RHEL9.
    - Petr: can test async - don't need to be on same call.
    - JM: add name to sheet, and test in your own time.

- Bio-Formats
    - 7.2.0 released last week. svs and czi changes.

- NGFF (Josh)
    - NGFF office hours on Wednesdays
    - NGFF RFC status update. RFC1 (current) and RFC0 (previous)
    - zarr-python: discord :arrow_right: zulip - common hosting
    - https://github.com/ome/ome-ngff-validator/pull/32 - implementing transforms etc ahead of spec being finalised
        - JM: automated testing of validator?

- GerBI (Tom)
    - Analysing histology data in Fiji use-case. Pierre Pouchin. Failing to load all data into memory. Trying to load regions 
      - https://github.com/GReD-Clermont/omero_macro-extensions/pull/19
      - JM: good to add this to our guides

- Glencoe (Chris)
    - Bio-Formats working with regions of interest is tricky.
    - Single sign-on with light Admin - web with sudo'd sessions.
        - poor handling of long usernames and passwords.
    - TileDB research with OMERO.tables. Preparing data on s3. Links to come

- Community
  - Jason: The wonderful OME Community Meeting. Community interested. Limited room availability. Checking dates around end of May. 

## AOB

(5 min. max; tech. Discussion should be highlighted to relevant people and rescheduled)

## Main Topic

(20-25 minutes plus 15 minutes questions max)
