---
title: '2024-11-12'
tags: [Tuesday]

---

---
tags: Tuesday
---

# 2024-11-12

Attending: Will, Dom, JM, Maadhav, Khaled, Josh, Melissa, Kyle, Frances, Andreas, Chris, Seb, Petr, Kevin, David, Erin, Muhanad

Start: 2:00 pm UK

## Accepting minutes from [last meeting](https://hackmd.io/team/ome?nav=overview)

## Project Status

(2-3 minutes each)

- IDR Frances:
    - Preparing for NFDI data stewards meeting tomorrow morning 8am
    - idr-testing is back up with latests DB. Testing search with updated Antibody KVPs.

- OMERO
    - Java Oracle email UoD: implication on software stack. Please check and remove.
    - See also https://github.com/ome/omero-artifact-plugin/pull/25. Already jumped from Java 8 to Java 11. More will need a gradle upgrade.
    - omero-web 5.28.0 release ready to go when suitable. JM: let's aim for early next week (Tues) - also release openmicroscopy following BF release this week (see below)

- Bio-Formats
    - Melissa: 8.0.1 - all PRs in Milestone have been merged. Ready to pick a date. Could be Thursday this week.
        - JM: yes, Thursday
    - Reviewing items for 8.1.0, including 1 external contribution

- NGFF
  - I2K/GBI/FoundingGIDE: challenge well received. Lots of enthusiasm. Number of groups want to get involved.
    - Offers of new data
    - Keeping data around
  - In need of a **roadmap** (perhaps as an RFC), e.g.,
    - 0.5: Zarr v3
    - 0.6: transforms
    - 0.7: RO-Crate?
    - ... 1.0/2.0/LTS/etc.
    - Vendors interested in support etc.
  - [Hackathon](https://biovisioncenter.notion.site/OME-NGFF-Workflows-Hackathon-2024-dde32a032adf49b4a53b4b014586b678) next week. Focus on Java, Python, and Workflows though multimodality perhaps as a unifying topic.
  - Seb: community call before end of year? Josh: yes, we have offers to run calls 
  - J-M: useful to have the challenge data in March
  - Will: looking to update ome-zarr-py. found one issue in zarr-python. https://github.com/zarr-developers/zarr-python/pull/2480

- GerBI
  - Josh: NFDI4BIOIMAGE project to compare and document repository submissions. E.g. Zenodo AND BIA etc.

- Glencoe
    - Erin: heading to CBIAS (Crick) last week of November

- Community
    - OMERO workshop in Japan went fine, see https://x.com/openmicroscopy/status/1853634849078460860
    - OMERO workshop in Brno in preparation. 1-day workshop on 6th December

## AOB

(5 min. max; tech. Discussion should be highlighted to relevant people and rescheduled)

## Main Topic

(20-25 minutes plus 15 minutes questions max)
