---
tags: Tuesday
---

# 2024-01-23

Attending: Dom, J-M, Frances, Khaled, Melissa, Kevin, Chris, David G, Andreas, David S, Petr, June, Kyle, Will, Seb, Maadhav, Erin

Start: 2:00 pm UK

## Accepting minutes from [last meeting](https://hackmd.io/team/ome?nav=overview)

## Project Status

(2-3 minutes each)

- IDR
  - Focusing on issue leading to server being not responsive
    - slow to load chuncks (secondary effects)
    - Will looked at alternative to access NGFF data on s3 (geesefs vs goofys) but no real improvement
    - Petr - testing with 
        - idr-next: idr0090 NGFF data on s3, with e.g. 100 images in figure is quickest route to e.g. 502 Bad Gateway (timeouts).
        - idr-next: On idr0138 (NGFF data but on filesystem not s3, regular imported with chunks, rather than mkngff). Server recovers better. 
        - idr-next: With idr0002 data (not NGFF) much harder to break web
        - IDR production: With idr0002 data on production IDR, everything is OK
    - Will - we've both noticed that IDR is faster than idr-next. Is that expected?
    - Chris - Glencoe uses different stack, microservices etc.

- OMERO
  - working on last remaining ansible roles (used mainly by IDR) 
  - Andreas: cleanup of python2 compatibility code.
      - JM: team to help with testing

- Bio-Formats
    - Melissa: 7.2.0 work in progress
    - David: ZarrReader: checking for any potential perf improvements

- NGFF
    - Will/Petr: missing blosc library prevents NGFF import on merge-ci

- GerBI
    - Discussed annotation scripts at Friday's web meeting, how to release etc.

- Glencoe
    - Chris: few small things in progress. Python 3.12 support, Java 17
    - Erin: Webknosses integration presentation tomorrow. Will present at next week's meeting

- Community

## AOB

(5 min. max; tech. Discussion should be highlighted to relevant people and rescheduled)

## Main Topic

(20-25 minutes plus 15 minutes questions max)
