---
tags: Tuesday
---

# 2024-07-23

Attending: Frances, Dom, J-M, Seb, Josh, David, Tom, Kevin, Chris, Khaled, Andreas, Melissa, Kyle, Jason

Start: 2:00 pm UK

## Accepting minutes from [last meeting](https://hackmd.io/team/ome?nav=overview)

## Project Status

(2-3 minutes each)

- IDR (Frances)
    - working on next release, including BF fix from David, idr0043 (svs fix)
    - planning to include microservice (under testing)
    - targeting next week

- OMERO
  - omero-py (done), omero-web, openmicroscopy releases upcoming 
  - Andreas: OMERO.web: tests for tables API, if they pass then merging last couple of PRs for the next OMERO.web release (in next days)

- Bio-Formats
    - release of BF, all good

- NGFF (Josh)
  - Several DACH hackathons upcoming
    - Nextflow in Tübingen in September
    - SpatialData in Basel in November (limited space)
    - OME-Zarr in Zürich in November
    - "bioimaging interoperability" in Kassel in December
  - Challenge
      - dev2: [rust conversion](https://github.com/ome/ome2024-ngff-challenge/issues/7) (LDeakins)
      - i.e., renewed interest in [zarr_implementations](https://github.com/zarr-developers/zarr_implementations/pull/57) (Josh)
      - dev3: [REMBI metadata](https://github.com/ome/ome2024-ngff-challenge/pull/8) (Tom-TBT)
  - IDR data for Challenge (Jason)
    - Q: what data would IDR submit? All data is great, but depends on what's in scope, what can be used today, what's useful today?
    - IDR can drive these questions. Would we contribute something for which there isn't a tool (today). Think so! Drive development/benchmarks.
    - Need to figure out who is doing conversion.
    - Rich datasets that may never be in a common spec. Try it out.
  - FLIM: https://forum.image.sc/t/online-meeting-a-zarr-based-format-for-flim-raw-data/99244 

- GerBI
  - Josh: NFDI looking for metadata mapping use cases
  - Josh: [FoundingGIDE](https://founding-gide.eurobioimaging.eu/) Update
    - IDR metadata model definition, i.e., from [idr0000](https://github.com/IDR/idr0000-lastname-example/blob/master/idr0000-study_HCS.txt)
    - multi-server search work (being defined). some PR cleanup first.
    - [ontology landscape review](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1-36a6wtBLIq5CZlbNCmBTWToF2ODmbEFPfCswBq48Bs/edit?usp=sharing)
    - hackathon in November in Japan. feel free to join :smile:
  - Tom: opened a couple of PRs; nothing urgent (holidays)
    - LUTs: https://github.com/search?q=org%3Aome+author%3Atom-tbt+LUTs&type=pullrequests

- Glencoe
    - preparation for SPI2 (beginning of September)

- Community

## AOB

(5 min. max; tech. Discussion should be highlighted to relevant people and rescheduled)

## Main Topic

(20-25 minutes plus 15 minutes questions max)
