---
tags: Tuesday
---

# 2024-07-30

Attending: Petr, Josh, Dom, Frances, Andreas, Melissa, Jason, David Gault, Khaled, Kyle, Erin, Chris, Kevin

Start: 2:00 pm UK

## Accepting minutes from [last meeting](https://hackmd.io/team/ome?nav=overview)

## Project Status

(2-3 minutes each)

- IDR (Frances)
  - Identified 3 candidate studies for starting the challenge:
      - idr0090: compound screen with 5 channels, already in Zarr v2. Looking at channel metadata
      - idr0157: phenotypic plant, non-screen; not yet converted to Zarr v2. 14 organisms to explore.
      - idr0044: McDole lightsheet data; partially converted to Zarr v2. Looking at chunking and sharding.
  - Dom looking at this on a pilot
  - Josh: pilot is slow. Dom to try a restart.

- OMERO (Andreas)
  - OMERO.web release on Monday
      - Tag pushed to Docker repo
      - Announcement on website

- Bio-Formats
  - David: following on from the OMERO release
    - otherwise, back to PR review
    - ZarrReader: integrating zarr-java beside jzarr for testing the API
  - Chris: watch out with 7.3.1 due to the metadata changes
    - behavior of Bio-Formats when things are missing is quite different
    - good thing since things don't blow up
    - files that did fail, no longer do
    - Josh: re-release as 7.4? something to think about.
    - David: unclear on where
    - Chris: specifically, all changes of `new Double()`. new behavior
      - but we don't have broken stuff in the repo that should *stay* broken
      - Melissa: will find another time to follow up on that

- NGFF (Josh)
  - Challenge:
    - ro-crate
      - Few new PRs opened. Thoughts welcome.
    - rust > ts
      - various performance issues (memory & partial reads)
      - script to generate?
    - codecs (issues)
      - "ergonomics" of the configuration (as well as the specification) leaves much to be desired
  - Transforms
    - https://github.com/InsightSoftwareConsortium/GetYourBrainTogether
    - Hopefully PRs etc. filtering into the public soon.

- Glencoe (Chris)
  - Various releases going in
  
- Community
  - JRS: paper hopefully done soon
    - Using OMERO for training / clinical residents (continuing education)
    - e.g., archipelago makes it hard to travel

## AOB

(5 min. max; tech. Discussion should be highlighted to relevant people and rescheduled)

## Main Topic

(20-25 minutes plus 15 minutes questions max)
