Dundee: N/A (Zoom)

Remote: Jean-marie, Josh (notes), Mark, Dominik, Seb, Petr, Frances,
Riad, June, Simon, Jason, Chris, Adreas, Liza, Melissa

Start: 2:00 pm

1. Accepting minutes from [<u>last meeting</u>](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1TndXeC3wQSZVEaB5ZGpEAaPRl1QAufSI)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

-   Accepted

2. Project Status
-----------------

(2-3 minutes each)

-   Data-In

    -   Seb:

        -   Bio-Formats 6.0.0-m4 (final milestone of the year)

            -   Tiling API fix for downloader

            -   First milestone where we drop Java 7

            -   And first pushed to ImageJ (development) update site

            -   I.e. more exposure

        -   Further freeze discussions first thing in the new year

    -   Frances

        -   HPA second run. Imported (\~500K images). 98 need
            > annotations.

            -   Release or not?

    -   J-m: iviewer testing went well

        -   Few items listed for the new year (Will’s return)

        -   Even the fish went well.

    -   Tomorrow at 1PM UK discussions around ordering of next
        > publications

        -   ROIs? Discuss tomorrow. (Certainly in Neuert)

-   Data-Out

    -   Mark: Adjusted OMERO.downloader build to create release archive
        > for end users. Drafted introductory blog post.

        -   JRS: talking to Niko et al. about testing. Target date?

        -   Mtbc: can download some metadata and some binary. i.e. ready
            > now.

            -   Subsequent focuses:

                -   OME-TIFF from plates isn’t working. Unclear if it’s
                    > easy to fix.

                -   Adding Bio-Formats 6.0.0+

        -   JRS: rolling it into IDR in the new year? Mtbc: would be
            > good to know what people want to do with the IDR data.

            -   E.g. OMERO’s export doesn’t provide map annotations.
                > Early target.

            -   Research needed.

    -   Ongoing work on requirements changes i.e. ice, postgresql, os
        > version. Add support for new version See
        > [<u>board</u>](https://trello.com/b/a1VdILbI/omero-550).
        > 5.5.0-m2 tag available (Last version with all components)

    -   Josh: 5.5.0-m3 will be a “now decoupled” tag

    -   JMB:: ubuntu 1804 ships with openjdk 11. Various issues.

-   Glencoe - 14:13

    -   Chris: closing out a few things before the end of the year

    -   Adding mirroring support to image region microservice

        -   customer request, e.g. tissue that was mis-oriented

        -   Will get those open in the new year post build work.

    -   Mtbc: mirroring into data model (rdef?)

        -   Chris: also doing rotation in PathViewer, plus default zoom
            > levels

        -   Could talk about that in the new year

        -   JMB: use ROI transforms? Chris: cascades to thumbnails, etc.

            -   cF. iviewer features as well. Converging.

-   Community

    -   Josh: see \#hca for links to the state of the union.

    -   JRS: call tomorrow with SSBD crowd morning to catch up

        -   Also calls with David/Caterina/NIH crowd (RDF metadata, etc)

        -   I.e. watch this space

3. AOB
------

(5 min. max; tech. Discussion should be highlighted to relevant people
and rescheduled) - 14:23 UK

-   Dundee: Discovery Centre maintenance on January 3rd: work from home?
    > JRS: yes.

-   Anything else? If not, released other than...

-   HPA: to release or not to release

    -   Frances: problem of having no annotation at all on images

    -   Seb: number of views over the next few weeks?

    -   Frances: ask Mattias about timeline?

    -   Josh: worst case, can also delete/hide/chown images

    -   Jason: timeline for Fish dataset

    -   JM: vote for postponing from analysis consumption perspective cf
        > idr0021 issue

    -   Jason: external pressure to get datasets public

    -   Labelling in-progress datasets. Expressing limitations

4. Main Topic
-------------

(20-25 minutes plus 15 minutes questions max)
