Dundee: N/A

Remote: Simon, Frances, JM, Kenny, Riad, Dom, Petr, Josh, Wilma, Seb,
Melissa, Chris, Andreas, Emil

Start: 2:00 pm

1. Accepting minutes from [<u>last meeting</u>](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1TndXeC3wQSZVEaB5ZGpEAaPRl1QAufSI)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

2. Project Status
-----------------

(2-3 minutes each)

-   Data-In

    -   Bio-Formats 6.0.0-m3 (Seb)

        -   Several requests for new functionality

            -   Downsampling (pyramids) + writing performance

            -   To be tested by collaborators

    -   S3 status (Simon):

        -   Brief investigation into reading performance problems with
            > S3 BioFormats

        -   Looking into HPA as a example use-case

        -   Josh: Will need a way for OMERO/BioFormats to handle
            > authenticated remote URLs, and for OMERO to differentiate
            > between files and remote URLs

        -   Seb: Keep all work on mainline branches unless unavoidable

    -   bia-tool (Josh):

        -   agreed with Ugis in Heidelberg on a the
            > [<u>blackbox</u>](https://docs.google.com/document/d/10AaPynPLPSgl_nuwAsGycnvAi8j6uHNSxYzNIDU8Ktg/edit)
            > strategy.

        -   Now available on
            > [<u>incubator</u>](https://gitlab.com/openmicroscopy/incubator/bia-tool).

        -   Want an OMERO that’s not OMERO, generate thumbnails for a
            > directory of images

        -   omero render isn’t sufficient

        -   Chris: not yet available as a microservice but on the todo
            > list. PRs to assist on the way.

    -   spacetx-fov-writer (Josh):

        -   now works with HCS data (BioFormats 6) to generate multi-FOV
            > spacetx datasets. These have been imported into OMERO as
            > well as viewed in starfish notebooks. See current
            > [<u>drawing</u>](https://docs.google.com/drawings/d/1qjxW5AQcsj_XShv_0Q4SOhNVFb_NlL4Md89kKTKub2w/edit)
            > for the grant proposal (going in today)

        -   Next step is to generate OME-XML for spacetx filesets
            > (companion files for TIFs on disk)

    -   IDR 0.6.0

        -   Datasets (Frances/Dom)

            -   Two datasets for next release, both KLB datasets.
                > Currently going into test60

        -   Software (Seb)

            -   Some bugs in IDR 0.6: OMERO 5.4.9 + BioFormats 5.9.2 +
                > IDR fixes + BF6 backports

            -   Need to test all existing studies, so far filepattern
                > known to be broken

            -   Iviewer going in to IDR as alternative (not default)
                > viewer

-   Data-Out

    -   Mark: omero-downloader: Slowed development to stabilize for
        > testing for initial release. Petr has started to take a look.
        > Current blockers are licensing question (GPLv2+?), code
        > review, testing/CI, possible move to GitHub in making
        > repository public. Some clear manageable to-do's identified
        > for subsequent release. Larger issues are: OME-XML is the only
        > metadata export format offered; OME model coverage is light
        > because OMERO's for import/export is correspondingly light and
        > yet to choose how to improve coverage.

        -   Petr: Tested on Mac, no bugs yet!

    -   OMERO 5.4.10 and PR freeze (JM):

        -   Required to fix Fiji training blocker

        -   PR to consider EOB tomorrow so we can release next week

        -   Insight version working with smuggler. To be included in the
            > coming release

    -   Demo slow:

        -   JM: Problem reproduced on pub-omero. Seems to be related to
            > the permission system admin (light) vs normal user.
            > Doesn’t seem to be related to particular web sections.
            > Mark and Riad investigating.

    -   iviewer to be released for next workshop (0.6.0)

    -   Cambridge training (JM):

        -   Focus on R rGateway so new version to be released before end
            > of the month.

        -   Training image is currently broken.

        -   Dom: Hopefully on CRAN after next release

-   Glencoe (Chris):

    -   Some OMERO PRs

    -   Several BioFormats issues, some already backported to
        > open-source

-   Community

    -   Turku, I2K, Cambridge, workshops

    -   Euro-BioImaging EBIB (Josh):

        -   Aim is to facilitate communication with industry

        -   General willingness to reduce number of new formats and to
            > collaborate

        -   Need to improve outreach?

3. AOB
------

(5 min. max; tech. Discussion should be highlighted to relevant people
and rescheduled)

4. Main Topic
-------------

(20-25 minutes plus 15 minutes questions max)
