---
title: 2018-05-01
---

Dundee: Kenny, Simon, Will, Mark, Riad, Dom, Petr, Jason, June,

Remote: Chris, Josh, Seb, J-m, Melissa, Liza, Wilma, Andreas, David

Start: 2:00 pm

1. Accepting minutes from [<u>last meeting</u>](https://drive.google.com/drive/u/0/folders/0B2ytmM7Jmj58N2gzcWZ6UVJONTA)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

2. Project Status
-----------------

(2-3 minutes each)

-   Community

    -   *Moved to the top to free up those primarily interested in
        > [<u>\#ome2018</u>](https://twitter.com/hashtag/OME2018)*

    -   Users’ Meeting

        -   45 external registrants so far

        -   Discussion of workshops (below)

        -   <u>Speakers’ schedule (Day 1)</u>

            -   Short talks: 10+5 to start

            -   Lightning for 1.5 hours

            -   Long talks: 20m talk + 10m questions

            -   1m poster talks

        -   Kenny: Code of conduct? Yes. Card please.

    -   Spam fun

        -   Some fix made (.org, .org.uk whitelisted)

-   West (Workflows)

    -   OMERO 5.4.6: last call for PRs

        -   Known read-only issues will be documented but won’t be fixed
            > for 5.4.6

    -   Figure:

        -   Big image PR integrated. For full review see [<u>testing
            > sheet</u>](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1qdOAv0wUgAVHEtlVroOwkeNUoNwst-APSPFJk6-3Sz8/edit#gid=0)

        -   To be released before users’ meeting

    -   IViewer:

        -   No time for 1.0.0, will have intermediate release before
            > users’ meeting

    -   VAE:

        -   Second round of notebooks testing on-going. Looking good.

        -   One remaining Issue with
            > [<u>https://www.ebi.ac.uk/QuickGO-Old</u>](https://www.ebi.ac.uk/QuickGO-Old)
            > (current idr-py). Not related to VAE.

        -   Next: test with prod50

    -   Working on workshop. [<u>OME2018 Day 2
        > workshops</u>](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1qXFzeIlijNUDxjRSAIEYZmmeiS4OCREyP_xq7BXOMBs/edit#)
        > ([<u>Trello
        > board</u>](https://trello.com/b/UzBkdA5T/dundee-2018-annual-users-meeting))

        -   Need to figure out room capacity if we run a single track
            > workshop (“Metadata track”)

        -   Some workshops will benefit from space to use laptops

        -   Producing an “Import” handout for participants

        -   Testing analysis workshop

-   East (infra/IDR 0.5.0)

    -   Prod50: last minute changes, re-caching, & publication, ETA next
        > week

    -   Beyond:

        -   HPA (26,000 imports, antibody labelled TMAs, complex
            > metadata)

        -   mapr performance status (“endpoints”)

            -   Postgres: Materialised views (Mark) to optimise queries
                > with Vertex webmicroservice (Riad) in front

            -   Tradeoff between PG changes vs Elasticsearch

                -   Elasticsearch would allow indexing external
                    > ontologies

            -   Naming….

            -   New style of server (without Ice)

            -   JRS: **blog** on improvement in metadata queries

            -   cF. HPA antibody tagging as a use case

    -   TIFF-Pyramids: Reading & Writing status as well as upcoming demo

        -   Should be able to use BFConvert to generate pyramids for any
            > OME-TIFF

-   Glencoe

    -   Promoting mapr and parade (upcoming release) to users with large
        > datasets

    -   Working with large per-objects tables (millions of rows)

3. AOB
------

(5 min. max; tech. Discussion should be highlighted to relevant people
and rescheduled)

4. Main Topic
-------------

(20-25 minutes plus 15 minutes questions max)

Report on the CZI meeting, Computational Tools for the HCA.

Discuss of slides that were presented. See [<u>Slides 37 &
38</u>](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1mSZcOFpRzteheB0OWSrhdfUZJSUgqIYSL6J7Urfif5k/edit#slide=id.g38744b6364_41_32)

-   General description

    -   Human Cell Atlas goals

    -   CZI Computational Tools RFA

    -   Dearth of imagers & imaging

-   Datasets

    -   Rohban (cellpainting): cf idr0033

    -   \*FISH (smFISH, etc)

    -   Sanger (MERFISH, spatial transcriptomics)

    -   JRS: “profile tissue in some state”

-   Technical Parts

    -   Purple: ingestion & validation

    -   Blue: S3, Elasticsearch

    -   Orange: file browser; handoffs

    -   Green: still a bit unclear

    -   Red: Portals

    -   Misc services

-   Concrete next steps

    -   File formats: YAFF as well as S3/BDV

    -   Image metadata json schema

    -   An OMERO instance

        -   [<u>QuPath?</u>](https://qupath.github.io/)

    -   Lots more talking
