Dundee: Will, Petr, Kenny, Dominik, Jean-Marie, Mark, Roger, Simon,
Riad,

Remote: Josh, Liza, David, Chris, Melissa, Wilma, Jason (phone), Emil,
Andreas

Start: 2:00 pm

1. Accepting minutes from [<u>last meeting</u>](https://drive.google.com/drive/u/0/folders/0B2ytmM7Jmj58N2gzcWZ6UVJONTA)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

2. Project Status
-----------------

(2-3 minutes each)

-   West (Workflows)

    -   OMERO 5.4.6:

        -   plan is to release on Thursday

        -   After no more code PR review - focus on Users Meeting

    -   Release after of figure (4.0.0), iviewer (0.5.0), parade (0.1.0)
        > (in no particular order)

        -   Features for metadata workshop etc.

    -   VAE: last few PRs to merge. Release tomorrow. Can then focus on
        > prod50

    -   JM: Notebooks can then be deployed/tested

-   East (infra/IDR 0.5.0)

    -   Populate metadata PR (Emil)

        -   Then Seb’s work on separating to a separate repo

    -   IDR core 0.5.0 stable (Memoizer issues)

        -   1 PR not backported. Discuss: fix IDR to use latest BF?

        -   Regenerating memoizers can kill server

    -   Few ongoing misc. deliverables: apex, render plugin

    -   Largely focusing on workshop deliverables

        -   Mark: Created [<u>simple
            > microservice</u>](https://gitlab.com/openmicroscopy/incubator/mapr-microservice)
            > offering mapr-related queries of materialized view via
            > HTTP endpoint.

    -   More examples & docs to come - Managed repo, microservices etc.

    -   Tiffpyramid

        -   5.9 Reader - PR open

        -   5.9 Writer - Not started yet

        -   5.8 Reader: data assumptions lead to silent failure (worst
            > possible outcome)

            -   Options include: hide for now, loud failure (with/out
                > version bump), require upgrade, etc

            -   Can’t release files publicly until resolved

            -   Jason/Josh: But could be demo’d at User Meeting, if we
                > are clear about status

-   Glencoe Chris

    -   5.4 upgrades

    -   Parade prep

-   Community

    -   Users’ Meeting

        -   3 slots of 1 hour for metadata. Suggestion: metadata
            > workflow in the morning

            -   9-10: Import, 10-11: Analysis, 11.30-12.30: Metadata

        -   Other sessions in afternoon.

        -   60-seater room on 2nd floor. Plenty big enough.

        -   Day-1 page finalised (and ready to tweet etc).

    -   Image Training hackathon in Cambridge - Mon/Tues (Petr).

3. AOB
------

(5 min. max; tech. Discussion should be highlighted to relevant people
and rescheduled)

4. Main Topic
-------------

(20-25 minutes plus 15 minutes questions max)

OMERO 5.4.6 changelog text suggestion for read-only:

This introduces a significant new subsystem for read-only operation with
which servers can be configured not to make changes to the database, the
filesystem, or both. The goal is to permit horizontal scaling of OMERO
by running multiple servers in parallel to increase the throughput of
data and metadata for large-scale analysis or publishing. Additionally,
a read-only copy of an existing OMERO can be opened safely to the public
for experimentation. For example, this infrastructure supports the
public OMERO web and Jupyter environment of the Image Data Resource,
https://idr.openmicroscopy.org/.
