---
title: 2018-11-27
---

Dundee: N/A

> Remote: Seb, Dom, Frances, June, Andreas, Mark, Josh, Chris, Melissa,
> Wilma, David

Start: 2:00 pm

1. Accepting minutes from [<u>last meeting</u>](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1DoWA7lhB3NNEUjyEhWGUH5eczTgLrNjH9ffLNKW7JRc/edit)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

2. Project Status
-----------------

(2-3 minutes each)

-   Data-In

    -   IDR 0.6.0

        -   Prod60 close to being ready. Tomorrow or Thursday. Frances
            > is evaluating the 2 new studies today. If all is well,
            > release tasks start tomorrow.

    -   BIA-IDR

        -   Call w/ Ugis (BioStudies) last week. They are expecting to
            > be able to take 1 dataset every 2 days. Working through
            > day-to-day process.

        -   Keeping tracking resources separate at the moment.

        -   Working towards a unified version of their metadata
            > templates with our extra metadata fields.

    -   Bio-Formats 6

        -   OME-TIFF pyramids. Upcoming post/email

        -   S3 prototype i.e. OMERO server with data in 3 separate
            > buckets

        -   Next milestone

            -   Tiling API fix

            -   BDV Reader

            -   File resource leak

            -   → performance!

        -   (Figure out full milestone in 2019)

    -   HCA: Reporting gdoc sent around. Otherwise all fairly quiet. 2
        > developers will be joining the I2K developer days.

-   Data-Out

    -   Mark: Petr and Simon found a couple of OMERO.downloader issues
        > that I intend to fix this week (or push if necessary) ready
        > for initial v0.1.0 release then will move on to OMERO 5.5 work
        > next week. Integration testing work for downloader will be
        > mothballed and pushed to next year.

        -   Josh: moving it to GitHub will help testing via
            > omero-test-infra

    -   Upcoming work on OMERO 5.5

-   Glencoe:

    -   Chris: good conversation about the future of micro-services.

    -   Fair amount of Bio-Formats backported work.

-   Community

    -   Ongoing outreach sessions at Turku

    -   Mark: OME/IDR talk at GRE symposium went fine yesterday.

3. AOB
------

(5 min. max; tech. Discussion should be highlighted to relevant people
and rescheduled)

4. Main Topic
-------------

(20-25 minutes plus 15 minutes questions max)
