Dundee: n/a

Remote: Kenny, Mark, Frances, June, Simon, Melissa, Chris, David, Wilma,
Andreas, Liza

Start: 2:00 pm

1. Accepting minutes from [<u>last meeting</u>](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1TndXeC3wQSZVEaB5ZGpEAaPRl1QAufSI)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

2. Project Status
-----------------

(2-3 minutes each)

-   Data-In

    -   Nothing reported.

-   Data-Out

    -   Mark: Progressing with omero-downloader work tracked on Data Out
        > board.

-   Who’s doing what:

    -   Frances: annotations for HPA dataset. Dom working on putting in
        > annotations. And Janelia dataset annotations, Ready to go.

    -   David: Testing hopefully final KLB changes for a while (Kate’s
        > data). Also testing some of Melissa’s PRs.

    -   Chris / G.S.: Customer stuff: file format changes. More PRs
        > inbound for David. Pretty close to being done. SEM discussions
        > ongoing: format and modelling. Datasets &gt;1TB/each (per
        > run). n\*10K files on disk. 6-10m fileset entries in DB. Would
        > like more examples, and potential preprocessing for
        > Bio-Formats before .bfmemo files, using that as primary store.

        -   Kevin going to feed back to OMERO and OMERO.web soon too.
            > PRs incoming.

    -   Simon: S3 work. Did import a .jpg over S3 into a custom OMERO,
        > but no metadata. Abstractions different compared to reading
        > code. Unit tests being worked out too. Have to have a big
        > discussion about Bio-Formats and file reading. Ad Hoc just
        > now.

        -   Melissa: what are you doing specifically, and what’s going
            > wrong?

        -   Simon: No, just have a few notes across a few PRs. Would
            > like to run full repo test, with some kind of shim
            > simulating remote-ness, to work on assumptions about
            > what’s local vs remote. Plan is more POC work then will be
            > written up in bugs/tickets/etc.

    -   Kenny:

        -   SSL certificates now deployed via Ansible
            > ([<u>prod-playbooks/legacy</u>](https://github.com/openmicroscopy/prod-playbooks/tree/master/legacy))
            > making significant changes to config (via MT) across mosts
            > systems. Will make subsequent renewals much easier.

        -   Chris: tmp directory, check for number of sessions, clear
            > them out at a first pass. Suggest switch to redis, no
            > reason to keep using file-based sessions.

        -   Simon: Isolate a Web call, make the equivalent OMERO API
            > call?

        -   Learning.openmicroscopy.org: yesterday was dragging with 20s
            > responses

    -   June: Finances, travel post Japan.

-   Glencoe

    -   ^ covered in “Who’s doing what”

-   Community

    -   n/a

3. AOB
------

(5 min. max; tech. Discussion should be highlighted to relevant people
and rescheduled)

-   June: AL for 2.5 weeks. No Wilma from 1st Nov. Requests if *really*
    > urgent, to **gre-admin**.

    -   AL requests to June & Jason as usual. Gre-admin won’t be used to
        > our AL.

        -   Request them **this week** if you’ve got any upcoming soon.

    -   **Do cyber-security training this week!**

4. Main Topic
-------------

(20-25 minutes plus 15 minutes questions max)
