---
title: 2018-12-11
---

Dundee: N/A

Remote: Simon, Frances, Kenny, Mark, Dom, Riad, Jason, Josh, Liza,
Chris, June, Seb, Melissa, Andreas, Wilma, David,

Start: 2:00 pm

1. Accepting minutes from [<u>last meeting</u>](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1TndXeC3wQSZVEaB5ZGpEAaPRl1QAufSI)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

2. Project Status
-----------------

(2-3 minutes each)

-   Data-In

    -   Seb: Bio-Formats 6 - upcoming freeze steps

        -   JRS: NIH directors etc. interested in the \#industry linkage

        -   Milestone release before Christmas

    -   SpaceTx (Josh): finally getting users for the fov-writer. See
        > also roadmap in \#hca.

        -   May need new PRs in final Bio-Formats 6

    -   Seb: Iviewer performance/usability/bug testing this week on
        > existing and new IDR datasets

-   Data-Out

    -   Mark: OMERO.downloader: Pushed commits hiding the broken export
        > options. Drafted introductory blog post. Plan to chat to
        > Jean-Marie about what more needs done to release.

    -   Riad: From Gradle to grave for OMERO builds, should fix problems
        > with build dependencies

-   Glencoe

    -   More microservice work, including a vertex inside OMERO using
        > Hazelcast

    -   Linking microservices with PostgreSQL session store, would also
        > allow Django to store sessions in PostgreSQL as an alternative
        > to Redis

    -   See open PRs

    -   More Bio-Formats work

-   Community

    -   I2K Below.

    -   JRS: [<u>ASCB
        > card</u>](https://trello.com/c/bQjVIQlS/226-ascb-embo-2018-7-9-dec-2018)
        > e.g. BDV test data

3. AOB
------

(5 min. max; tech. Discussion should be highlighted to relevant people
and rescheduled)

4. Main Topic - I2K Feedback ([<u>card</u>](https://trello.com/c/ofJJPkyw/200-images-2-knowledge-i2k-6-8-dec-2018-embl-heidelberg))
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

(20-25 minutes plus 15 minutes questions max)

-   Bio-Formats

    -   +1 for TIFF-Pyramid ([<u>see blog
        > post</u>](http://blog.openmicroscopy.org/file-formats/community/2018/11/29/ometiffpyramid/))

    -   Then: HDF5 followed closely by
        > [<u>N5</u>](https://github.com/saalfeldlab/n5) (tree of JSON
        > files with pointers to tensors chunked into smaller files,
        > optimised for parallel compute including writing) but N5 is
        > still insufficient. Upcoming discussions on migrating BDV to
        > N5.

    -   [<u>image.sc</u>](https://forum.image.sc/) shared forums
        > including
        > [<u>Bio-Formats</u>](https://forum.image.sc/tags/bio-formats)

    -   IO: APR (Adaptive particle representation) (or not), next-tiff
        > (“performance”)

        -   [<u>https://www.nature.com/articles/s41467-018-07390-9</u>](https://www.nature.com/articles/s41467-018-07390-9#data-availability)
            > (variant of HDF5)

    -   Melissa: User request for Docker bfconvert

-   EOSC anyone?

    -   Jean-Karim promoting it; Galaxy / KNIME

    -   JRS: EOSC is a virtual cloud of clouds…

    -   BIA is part of EOSC, officially approved by EMBL, will be built
        > by EBI

-   OMERO

    -   Firewall issue during workshop, ports 4063/4064 blocked.
        > Something worth anticipating for future outreach sessions (Web
        > port over SSL)?

    -   CATMAID, may want to demonstrate integration with OMERO for
        > electron microscopy

    -   KNIME some interest in building a workflow

-   Analysis

    -   Deep everything: Broad, Ilastik, lots of u-net, Keras: yes,
        > Theano: no.

        -   New tools for dealing with the DL blackbox aspect
            > (visualization and validation)

        -   Lots of different strategies for ground truth i.e. not only
            > manual labelling, secondary channels etc

        -   See trello card for links. We should try something.

    -   Clear tools for SMLM (Single-Molecule Localization Microscopy)
        > and tissues (also clear data)

    -   BDV Ecosystem e.g. including tracking (Mastodon/Trackmate3),
        > segmentation, stitching, visualization tools working with BDV

        -   TrackMate 3 tested with 10M points.

    -   Interest in having ground truth and labels in IDR.

        -   Question of where to store the models.

-   Misc

    -   Funding & “Research Software Engineering”

    -   Discussion on management of RDF and unstructured metadata (see
        > image.sc)

    -   Conda

    -   Lots of users still relying on ImageJ1 Macros

-   Next meeting: 2020 in Madison
