---
title: 2018-04-10
---

Dundee: Dom, Kenny, Petr, June, Roger, Simon, Riad

Remote: Josh (notes), Chris, Melissa, Liza, Wilma, Emil, Stick

Start: 2:00 pm

1. Accepting minutes from [<u>last meeting</u>](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1XXkLng9Qo5zeGzj6K4A7jJ-FGDa1M_7J4-8_6pSgSck/edit)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

2. Project Status
-----------------

(2-3 minutes each)

-   West (Workflows)

    -   Figure testing on-going See. [<u>Testing
        > information</u>](https://trello.com/c/B8KGhoz9/13-testing-information)

    -   iviewer:

        -   On-going work 1.0.0.

    -   IDR/vae

        -   [<u>https://idr-analysis.openmicroscopy.org/</u>](https://idr-analysis.openmicroscopy.org/)

        -   Below.

    -   infra/kubernetes

-   East (infra/IDR 0.5.0)

    -   prod50

        -   Targeting end of April..

        -   with OMERO 5.4.6 which is on Bio-Formats 5.8.2

        -   As well as VAE (above)

        -   Testing sheet forthcoming.

        -   Pushing microservice changes to a follow-up release (see
            > gitlab)

    -   Speaking of which: Gitlab

        -   Incubator: now public. Flexible permissions for rest.

        -   Want to learn more? Josh happy to add accounts.

    -   east-ci now reflecting tiffpyramid issues (and testing MATLAB on
        > gitlab \[not yet automated\])

        -   Now pointing at readers with problems, ETA green this week

        -   Testing of matlab in gitlab now (UoD matlab license fun)

    -   Selinux issues for upcoming OMERO 5.4.6 (as well as patching)

        -   Downtime for various services upcoming, “regular” patching

-   Glencoe - 14:09

    -   Still on roughly the same track, trying to catch 5.4 bugs

    -   cF. thread leakages due to numpy which has added noise to our
        > counts

        -   Unknown if particular actions or run-times lead to leaks

        -   Trying to uninstall and/or set thread counts to 1

        -   Likely nothing else to add to the existing PR.

        -   Re: numpy & memofile invalidation -- **document it in
            > upgrade guys**

    -   omero-cli-render 0.1.1 released today for inclusion. Also
        > document it?

        -   Could then be used a/synchronously on upgrade

    -   omero-parade:

        -   Had been planning on a quick presentation next Tuesday

        -   May want to postpone; more status next week

    -   Backburnering format issues

-   Community

    -   IDR 0.4.7

        -   Petr/Dom: couple of PRs opened to be merged and then tagged.

    -   Users’ Meeting

        -   Registrations still coming in

        -   Few weeks left before closing

        -   May is holiday time.

        -   More coming on the structure in the next couple of weeks.

3. AOB
------

(5 min. max; tech. Discussion should be highlighted to relevant people
and rescheduled)

-   N/A

4. Main Topic
-------------

(20-25 minutes plus 15 minutes questions max)

-   Recording presentation.

-   Questions (see video for answers):

    -   Where do/did delays come from?

    -   How do you configure the wait?

    -   Tara oceans example
