---
title: 2018-09-11
---

Dundee: Mark, Kenny, Dom, J-M, June

Remote: Seb, Andreas, Frances, Wilma, Melissa, Josh, Kevin, David, Chris

Start: 2:00 pm

1. Accepting minutes from [<u>last meeting</u>](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1TndXeC3wQSZVEaB5ZGpEAaPRl1QAufSI)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

2. Project Status
-----------------

(2-3 minutes each)

-   Epics

    -   OMERO 5.4.8 (Josh)

        -   Rc2 testing happened yesterday along with last round of
            > merged PRs

        -   No known blockers. Could go ahead with 5.4.8

        -   Riad investigating visualization of thumbnails. Need to draw
            > a line

        -   Targeting 5.4.8 build probably tomorrow.

        -   Interest from GS to test these import features. Need to
            > decide how much time to invest in it

        -   Jean-Marie: Suzanne’s changes included? Pushed out of the
            > milestone

    -   Mailman: testing of v3 (Kenny)

        -   Staging server installed. Need to get it configured next.
            > Hoping to get testing scheduled this week.

    -   Training (Jean-Marie)

        -   Jean-Marie: releasing last version of parade before next
            > training session

        -   2 workshops planned next week in Australia

        -   Then focusing on NEUBIAS (MATLAB). Probably will use
            > idr0021.

-   Glencoe (Chris)

    -   Dealing with various customer issues.

    -   Test of OMERO 5.4.8 planned today/tomorrow.

    -   Few hundreds students using OMERO+Pathviewer

-   Community

    -   HCA: “call 1” of data providers (Josh)

        -   Most of the data seems to be 2D TIFF written to disk.

        -   Will put files publicly so that others can see/consume it.
            > Longer time, can discuss IDR import

3. AOB
------

(5 min. max; tech. Discussion should be highlighted to relevant people
and rescheduled)

4. Main Topic
-------------

(20-25 minutes plus 15 minutes questions max)
