---
title: 2018-10-30
---

Dundee:

Remote:

Start: 2:00 pm

1. Accepting minutes from [<u>last meeting</u>](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1TndXeC3wQSZVEaB5ZGpEAaPRl1QAufSI)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

2. Project Status
-----------------

(2-3 minutes each)

-   Data-In

    -   Human Protein Atlas (Frances/Dom)

        -   Frances: did all the testing of the annotations

        -   Annotation of the first batch on idr-next running (eta
            > tomorrow afternoon)

        -   Another round of testing, then should be ready for release

    -   KLB datasets (David/Frances)

        -   Frances: image render settings

        -   David: imported dataset into IDR public

    -   Data on S3 (Simon)

        -   AWS uncached imports working for a test tif (but not on the
            > CI merge build)

    -   Harmony datasets (Seb/Melissa)

        -   Couple of datasets in hand, need to get accompanying
            > metadata in place

    -   IDR 0.6.0 (Seb)

        -   Draw up roadmap for next release and the one after

        -   Work required on software portion, new reader in progress

        -   Aim for IDR testing early next week

-   Data-Out

    -   Mark: The omero-downloader work is progressing reasonably and is
        > tracked on the Data Out board on Trello. I am starting work on
        > initial documentation which should enable some subsequent
        > testing. Metadata representation is currently OME-XML and
        > largely limited to what is supported by Blitz's OmeroMetadata.

    -   Riad: iviewer

        -   Moving ol3-viewer library from depreciated openlayers
            > dependency.

        -   Changed build system to webpack from google closure

        -   IDR blockers:
            > [<u>https://trello.com/c/LdGRTtZI/7-omeroiviewer-potential-blockers</u>](https://trello.com/c/LdGRTtZI/7-omeroiviewer-potential-blockers)

-   Sysadmin (Kenny)

    -   Demo OMERO.web latency

        -   Suspicion is that too much data being sent to OMERO.web

            -   Too many users? (2088)

        -   Attempt to attach debugger to OMERO.web code

        -   etc/logback.xml to be tweaked to log SQL

    -   Infrastructure failures

        -   JBC VMware VMs hard-reset twice

        -   Network ingress/egress intermittent Fri-Mon 12:30

-   Glencoe

    -   PRs incoming to OMERO

    -   Support and various customer calls

-   Community

    -   Riken trip

        -   Visit of Shuichi Onami’s lab. Lots of discussion about
            > curation and handling data types

        -   Short term goals: demonstration of running client against
            > SSBD

        -   Discussion about Janelia dataset esp. Trajectories

        -   Discussion about RDF-based OME model. Might help making some
            > aspects of our model more flexible (instrument etc)

        -   Need to fix our OMERO Fiji plugin

3. AOB
------

(5 min. max; tech. Discussion should be highlighted to relevant people
and rescheduled)

4. Main Topic
-------------

(20-25 minutes plus 15 minutes questions max)
