Dundee: Will, Petr, Kenny, Simon, Jason, Dominik, Mark, Riad,

Remote: Melissa, Andreas, David, Emil, Wilma, Liza

Start: 2:00 pm

1. Accepting minutes from [<u>last meeting</u>](https://drive.google.com/drive/u/0/folders/0B2ytmM7Jmj58N2gzcWZ6UVJONTA)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

2. Project Status
-----------------

(2-3 minutes each)

-   Summer epics

    -   OMERO 5.4.7

        -   Bio-Formats testing ongoing…

        -   Update team via e-mail (lots of team on the road)

    -   Mail

        -   No progress yet.

        -   Jason: Nitpick notifications going to spam

        -   Kenny: outlook web UI allows “report as not spam”

            -   More people doing it, the better

    -   Import

        -   Dom: Insight importer PR open. Lots of testing needed

            -   Import lots of files

            -   Includes Riad’s ‘skip thumbnailing’ etc.

        -   Dom: more clarification needed on requirements etc.

        -   Riad: most quick-fixes covered. Are bigger changes worth it?

-   Glencoe. Chris:

    -   OMERO PR - handling more channels in right panel

        -   [<u>https://github.com/openmicroscopy/openmicroscopy/pull/5810</u>](https://github.com/openmicroscopy/openmicroscopy/pull/5810)

    -   Documentation PR on LDAP lowercase usernames

        -   [<u>https://github.com/openmicroscopy/ome-documentation/pull/1888</u>](https://github.com/openmicroscopy/ome-documentation/pull/1888)

    -   Melissa: see cards on 5.10 board

-   Community

    -   Jason: TOPIM-TECH meeting. Good to be at diverse meeting -
        > Medicine, Pathology etc.

    -   Petr: feedback on outreach board.

    -   Jason: next is Basel, 3-4 september.

        -   Petr: need to include sysadmin installation content

        -   Flexible content depending on sign-ups.

        -   Oliver wants to promote OMERO to sysadmins.

        -   E.g. use docker to show server install walk-through

        -   Kenny: software carpentry notes on install are available

3. AOB
------

(5 min. max; tech. Discussion should be highlighted to relevant people
and rescheduled)

-   Kenny: demo account creation script not working. E-mail accounts not
    > e-mailed.

-   Need cli exit status to confirm that e-mail sent and for script to
    > check that.

-   1 month backlog. Delete accounts and re-create with e-mail fixes.

4. Main Topic
-------------

(20-25 minutes plus 15 minutes questions max)
