Dundee: Will, Petr, Dominik, June, Riad, Mark, Kenny, Roger, Jean-Marie,

Remote: Josh, Sebastien, Eleanor, David, Melissa, Wilma, Andreas, Chris,
Emil

Start: 2:00 pm

1. Accepting minutes from [<u>last meeting</u>](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1t_QdABjNOI01ILU87y6CPHSvSxkcaiiqEo5uomSlH1M/edit#heading=h.s97bpd4gek0l)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

2. Project Status
-----------------

(2-3 minutes each)

-   Now (JM)

    -   Release

        -   OMERO 5.4.1 last week

        -   Iviewer 0.4.1

        -   nightshade to be upgraded

    -   Cambridge Training (Work in progress)

        -   Server up with latest versions using Ansible (Petr)

        -   [<u>Day I
            > walkthrough</u>](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1gkC1uZCgr0R0RXA6LRIh3JnjiMM8x00J_q9EKJO0gTY/edit)

        -   [<u>Day II
            > walkthrough</u>](https://docs.google.com/document/d/10lrJA7PKTaoPCn7mHzeYJXLmYHEuiK4dVaNt0lQC1FM/edit)

        -   Notebook prep in progress

        -   NB: for “light” demo (e.g. SMG 2017 in Glasgow) use demo.ome

    -   Release to come tomorrow

        -   [<u>IDR
            > 0.4.4</u>](https://trello.com/b/G9DZ9nDP/idr-release-044)

-   Next (Josh)

    -   Infrastructure work...

    -   Test-omero (and decoupled repos)

        -   4 repos using this

        -   Target this for 5.4.2?

        -   Present it next Tuesday?

        -   Comes from omero-mapr. Uses Docker running OMERO

        -   JM tried something similar (but different) with
            > omero-scripts cli-render etc.

        -   Lots of examples of decoupled repos using this in Travis

        -   Not just limited to Python

        -   Everything is green now, will merge this week

    -   OME-Files 0.5.0 (and doc builds)

        -   Builds getting greener

    -   Prod deployments

        -   Showing up in prod playbooks

    -   ITR upcoming

        -   Screenshots available soon

-   Glencoe

    -   CellProfiler “excitement” last week.

    -   CellProfiler fixes contributed - will be in their next release

    -   Pathviewer release later this week

-   Community

    -   Facility managers’ meeting 4th & 5th Jan (Jason)

3. AOB
------

(5 min. max; tech. Discussion should be highlighted to relevant people
and rescheduled)

-   Josh: Try to minimise number of open PRs. \~160 now

-   Use github search to find PRs not in-progress. Getting better - see
    > docs.

-   Seb: using github milestones more proactively.

-   Seb: will try to formalise guidelines for using labels.

4. Main Topic
-------------

(20-25 minutes plus 15 minutes questions max)
