---
title: 2017-10-10
---

Dundee: Simon, Balaji, Petr, Mark, Dominik, Helen, J-M, June, Jason,
Roger, Riad

Remote: Seb, Wilma, Eleanor, Liza, Melissa

Start: 2:00 pm

1. Accepting minutes from [<u>last meeting</u>](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1UpUxDgrlCPzMDbIa59JOJUQn_ITwvEUbopyBB9CeTEY/edit#heading=h.wmjudnh61a0y)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Accepted

2. Project Timelines
--------------------

(2-3 minutes each)

###  A. Spaces

-   [<u>Files/Formats</u>](https://trello.com/b/IBHfAIMP/bio-formats-5-x)

    -   Bio-Formats 5.7.2: board created for end of the month (could be
        > sooner if needed). Includes some support for Java 9 (runtime).
        > Will require some testing/coordination with upstream project
        > releases (ImageJ/Fij).

        -   Jason: Is there clear work and structure towards Java9 work
            > in the community?

        -   Roger: Fiji/ImageJ does not work with Java9 on Mac
            > (currently). Launcher having issues. Will look into the
            > launcher, if it requires a cursory tweak.

        -   Seb: Needs a rewrite of the launcher, not sure about the
            > time lines.

    -   OME Files: increasing community threads about consuming the C++
        > API to write OME-TIFF. Starting to look into low-level
        > components release while we extend the Python bindings. Need
        > rationalization in terms of documentation/website.

        -   Work on the paper

    -   Starting to think of ways to integrate the docs for OME files to
        > the new website.

    -   Clearing backlogs and not yet ready for a patch release.
        > Hopefully something by the end of the month.

-   [<u>Metadata</u>](https://trello.com/c/XQXwX6jj/6-metadata)

    -   IDR-PY, Gene-Ontology notebooks merged, PR for jupyter-docker to
        > consume IDR-PY the last step for completing phase1 of the
        > Gene-Ontology notebooks.

    -   BioSchemas - Eleanor went to meeting/hackathon for resources
        > interested in adopting BioSchemas mark up. Aim to make
        > datasets more findable by search engines using json-ld.
        > Looking at implementing for data resource and datasets in IDR

    -   Ongoing work on new submissions on light sheet and FLIM-FRET
        > datasets.

        -   Not clear on the date of publication for the datasets as
            > yet.

-   [<u>OMERO 5.4.1</u>](https://trello.com/b/cpSTs9QZ/omero-541)

    -   5.4.0 Out Thanks.

    -   Training for the coming weeks

    -   Focus for 5.4.1: Stabilize the testing framework, Mark working
        > on the same.

    -   Also push some of the plugins, for the CLI (maybe one or two) :
        > targeted towards the cambridge training. Will have to consider
        > the Bio-Formats release cycle as well, for 5.4.1

    -   Concentrating on the training sheet.

    -   Work around the guest user: still investigating to check more
        > workflows.

-   [<u>Outreach</u>](https://trello.com/b/Da6OAWam/outreach)

    -   Start prep for Cambridge in coming weeks

    -   Advertise the cambridge workshops again, in social media.

    -   Seeing is Believing: Good discussions, lots of microscopy.
        > Should try to attend in future as well.

###  B. Other releases/upgrades:

-   Figure

    -   3.1.2 out today. Compatible with 5.3.x

    -   Compliments from Oxford, have some issues with IE. Have some
        > features coming.

-   iViewer

    -   [<u>iviewer multiple
        > viewers</u>](https://github.com/openmicroscopy/design/issues/79)

        -   Design issue, towards multi-view. (Comments welcome).

        -   Load testing (ongoing process)

    -   We are close to matching all features available on Insight
        > (creates dependency on OMERO 5.4)

-   New website

    -   Background tasks of further migrating old user meeting content
        > and nitpicks like CSS styling and further linkages

    -   Riad still needs to supply a photo and bio

    -   Next pushes will be training materials and further work on
        > downloads - OME Files page and decision on whether we have
        > versioned OMERO download pages on the website since there are
        > no index pages on downloads.openmicroscopy.org since we
        > changed the release process

        -   Trello card in the website board(inbox): comments welcome.

        -   Possibility of estimating the cost of maintaining multiple
            > versions of OMERO downloads in our downloads pages.

        -   Push towards updating to the latest versions, as part of the
            > philosophy?

-   Sysadmin

    -   Thursday, Nightshade scheduled for upgrade (contact with IT
        > established)

    -   Need to synchronise with Michael to work on upgrading m-tools to
        > 5.4.

    -   An hour or so of testing in the coming week.

###  C. Glencoe Update (Chris)

-   Various deployments in several places(cloud based deployments)

3. AOB
------

(5 min. max; tech. Discussion should be highlighted to relevant people
and rescheduled)

-   Join in ‘Together science can social media campaign? (see email from
    > Julian Blow)

    -   A zoom screen capture of the whole team? After Bio-Formats
        > stand-up tomorrow.

-   Scc 0.8.0: changes for developers

    -   Tagged a release earlier today. Improved conflict management via
        > scc. (one-time notification instead of daily notifications).

    -   Scc change in behaviour from tomorrow.

-   Training plan:

    -   Topics and decisions on when the trainings will happen (concrete
        > schedule?)

    -   Eleanor : creating a workflow documentation on IDR import
        > process, passing on the knowledge to the core team.

    -   Calls after standup every day to discuss status.

    -   Duplicates need to be removed, and a few topics need to be
        > tagged as “discussion”

    -   Everyone : Update priorities and review the sheet one last time.
        > Will help in scheduling.

    -   Plan is to get it sorted by Thursday.

4. Main Topic
-------------

(20-25 minutes plus 15 minutes questions max)
