---
title: 2017-10-03
---

Dundee: Will, Petr, June, Mark, Balaji, Jean-Marie, Helen, Simon, Jason,
Roger,

Remote: Seb, Josh, Dom, Kenny, David, Wilma, Chris, Emil, Andreas

Start: 2:00 pm

1. Accepting minutes from [<u>last meeting</u>](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1XUY4KvjosbdRPcHrNklQIyBvADMK8HDIOmTN14h4tkI/edit#heading=h.wmjudnh61a0y)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

2. Project Timelines
--------------------

(2-3 minutes each)

###  A. Spaces

-   [<u>Files/Formats</u>](https://trello.com/b/IBHfAIMP/bio-formats-5-x)

    -   BF 5.7.1 released last week. Will be used in OMERO 5.4.0.

        -   External contributions may then go in to patch releases

        -   Review open cards etc later today - timeline and impact to
            > OMERO

    -   OME Files: Python bindings: simplification and easier to extend

        -   Mass Spec data Use case: prep for import to IDR

        -   Use case: Jupyter notebooks - numpy arrays etc.

-   [<u>Metadata</u>](https://trello.com/c/XQXwX6jj/6-metadata)

    -   Trello boards cleanup for prod44

    -   FLIM FRET data Dataset 39.

    -   Eleanor at BioSchemas

    -   JSON-LD

    -   Embed Google / other (bio-schemas) meta info into webclient

    -   Jason: AAI login Elixir - Useful to reuse existing work

-   [<u>OMERO 5.4.0</u>](https://trello.com/b/SiqOu2Bl/omero-540)

    -   5.3.5. Ready to release tomorrow

    -   Port private changes to public

    -   Ideally build 5.4.0 on Thursday to test on Friday. Else Sunday
        > for test on Monday

    -   Release on Monday

-   [<u>Outreach</u>](https://trello.com/b/Da6OAWam/outreach)

    -   Cambridge training ad out yesterday.

        -   10 registered for 07/12, 6 for 08/12

        -   Promote on social media

    -   Heidelberg - Seeing is believing

    -   SMG - Glasgow

    -   GRE symposium

    -   Satellite / Falklands use cases interested in OMERO

###  B. Other releases/upgrades:

-   Figure

    -   Possible minor release to fix usage in IE

-   iViewer

    -   Will to Mock-up multi-viewer UI

    -   Next release (after 5.4.0) will bring iviewer up to Insight
        > functionality

    -   Encourage users to make it the default viewer

-   New website

    -   Social page and other updates tomorrow along with 5.3.5 release

    -   Porting few things from old website

-   Sysadmin

    -   Test applying workarounds to demo and nightshade before upgrade

    -   Jason: GRE PI meeting. Uni network upgrade. VPN, IP addresses
        > changing etc.

        -   Lifescience due in next few months

###  C. Glencoe Update (Chris)

-   Demonstrations for customers

-   Microservices fixes

3. AOB
------

(5 min. max; tech. Discussion should be highlighted to relevant people
and rescheduled)

4. Main Topic: Team Training
----------------------------

(20-25 minutes plus 15 minutes questions max)

-   See [<u>Team Training
    > 2017</u>](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Xj6iWUbfeS4JC9lw8pQV1FG_BSjExplfOgWYLvFAZcE/edit#heading=h.s0xd0dk7v1l7)
    > gdoc

-   Lots of parts to project - no-one knows everything

-   Some parts aged and brittle

-   We have stable platform now. Take time to refresh knowledge,
    > evaluate new tech etc.

-   E.g. spend 2 weeks to prepare training materials (incl. outside of
    > comfort zone)

-   1 week of presenting

-   Different levels - beginner vv in-depth

    -   Using vs. how it works

    -   Cross-learning (BR: reducing the number of questions needed to
        > get started)

-   Everyone to fill-out [<u>Team Training
    > spreadsheet</u>](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/12HSo3CrxkPqjkM4RthcH_e6eDGnlm-xZnTS5V6iMqeg/edit#gid=0)
