---
title: 2019-11-19
---

Dundee: Will, Petr, Dom, Simon, Mark,

Remote: Seb, Josh, Ola, Andreas, Jean-Marie, David, Melissa, Liza,
Wilma, Chris

Start: 2:00 pm

1. Accepting minutes from [<u>last meeting</u>](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1TndXeC3wQSZVEaB5ZGpEAaPRl1QAufSI)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

2. Project Status
-----------------

(2-3 minutes each)

-   IDR (Seb):

    -   Aim to release everything that is publishable before end of
        > year.

    -   Various archiving needs/issues (including performance)

    -   Few datasets in progress in the background by various team
        > members

-   Python3: tabling for \#4

-   SA (learning/mail): N/A

-   Glencoe

    -   Digital Pathology formats

        -   Isyntax2raw
            > ([<u>https://github.com/glencoesoftware/isyntax2raw</u>](https://github.com/glencoesoftware/isyntax2raw))
            > & mrxs2raw
            > ([<u>https://github.com/glencoesoftware/mrxs2raw</u>](https://github.com/glencoesoftware/mrxs2raw))
            > conversion repos now public

        -   Works with Philips data, available when registered on
            > website

        -   n5 is default format, zarr also possible

        -   Secondary repository to turn back into OME-TIFF
            > [<u>https://github.com/glencoesoftware/raw2ometiff</u>](https://github.com/glencoesoftware/raw2ometiff)
            > incl. compressions choice

        -   Upcoming improvements to the compression scheme + Dockerized
            > pipeline for the conversion

        -   Use TiffSaver instead of TiffWriter and optimised code paths
            > for improved performance

        -   Preparing a public statement on why we’re using
            > transformation (which blog? Cross post?)

    -   Long-running user-tokens for OMERO in new repo.

    -   Bio-Formats updates - PRs open

-   Community

    -   Lots of love on image.sc

3. AOB
------

(5 min. max; tech. Discussion should be highlighted to relevant people
and rescheduled)

-   ...

-   The python-uninterested can run away.

4. Main Topic: VAE Python 3 demo (J-m)
--------------------------------------

(20-25 minutes plus 15 minutes questions max)

-   Demo…. (JM)

    -   Python3 changes not published to docker hub yet. Demo local
        > code.

    -   Notebooks all running, but need manual testing - volunteers?

    -   Remains to look at ITR. CellProfiler is currently disabled.

    -   Seb: upgrade to VAE independent of the IDR? Yes.

-   General discussion

    -   Working on various plugins - most plugins green with
        > omero-test-infra testing

        -   Still working on omero-mapr.

    -   Next focus on documentation

        -   Need to decide on supported platforms and python versions

        -   Yes
