Dundee: Petr, Dom, Ilaria, June, Riad,

Remote: Jason, Frances, Seb, Will, Andreas, David, Chris, Melissa

Start: 2:00 pm

1. Accepting minutes from [<u>last meeting</u>](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1TndXeC3wQSZVEaB5ZGpEAaPRl1QAufSI)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

2. Project Status
-----------------

(2-3 minutes each)

-   Data-In (Ingest)

    -   IDR 0.6.8 downtime before end of business today - 1 day
        > hopefully

        -   Needs checking that we are back to normal tomorrow

    -   Bio-Formats 6.2.0

        -   Testing and integrating. New readers.

        -   New release next week.

    -   IDR upgrade to OMERO 5.5/BF 6

        -   Next couple of weeks

-   Data-Out (UI/Search)

    -   OMERO 5.5.1 release

        -   Mid-way through the release currently

        -   Public downloads etc. Final Insight testing now

        -   Should be ready tomorrow for public announcement

-   SA (learning/mail)

    -   Learning

        -   Petr: meeting with Paul Pfelts on Thursday

        -   Will: investigating slowness of systems with many users. Try
            > to reduce unnecessary loading.

            -   Problem of loading all group/experiments details loaded
                > when using -1 as group context

            -   Probably best fixed server-side

        -   Seb: blocker for learning?

            -   Will: easiest fix is to remove any users that haven’t
                > logged in.

            -   Ultimate decision about usability on Thursday with Paul

        -   Will: impact of the change will impact every single query.
            > Only looked at a few ones so far.

        -   Possibly move inactive users to a different group

            -   Petr: not obvious how to make the query

            -   Jason: Just move All users (except Paul) to another
                > group?

-   Glencoe

    -   Chris: working through micro-services tracking deadlocks.
        > Traceing tech to help.

-   Community

    -   Jason: more workshop opportunities

    -   Discussion about loss on notifications on expired Lifesci
        > accounts

    -   Jason in London then EBI - discuss EuroBioImaging

3. AOB
------

(5 min. max; tech. Discussion should be highlighted to relevant people
and rescheduled)

4. Main Topic
-------------

(20-25 minutes plus 15 minutes questions max)

-   Ilaria’s presentation: OMERO steps in the field of Environmental
    > Science

    -   Images to be documented, analysed, shared, published

    -   Actions:

        -   Use demo account to try OMERO functionalities

        -   Install OMERO

        -   Install Orbit and Fiji for image analysis

        -   Test Orbit (with help from Manuel Stritt)

    -   Orbit worked well for identifying e.g. penguins, albatrosses
        > etc.

        -   ROIs saved back to OMERO

    -   Get feedback from data users and image collectors

        -   Demonstration of OMERO with request for comments

        -   Create wish-list - mostly automation of key-value pairs and
            > tagging

    -   Joined the OME team office

        -   Developed custom scripts for Tag & Map Annotation management

        -   Better understanding of groups, permissions etc.

    -   Github repo of scripts

    -   Github fork of domik’s omero-R for analysing shapes

    -   To come:

        -   Deploy OMERO in real environment using docker. Pilot
            > projects to test

        -   Assess OMERO performance and what works and what doesn’t.
            > Worth proceeding?

        -   If OMERO is good solution for Environmental Science: invest
            > more time…

    -   Considerations:

        -   OMERO.py not easy to learn - learning python and OMERO at
            > same time

        -   Users will need training - will want more automation (means
            > learning python)

    -   Will: suggest to write some instructions about scripts. Easy to
        > forget expectations
