Dundee: Will, Petr, Mark, Jean-Marie, June,

Remote: Josh, Sebastien, Frances, Melissa, Chris, David, Andreas

Start: 2:00 pm

1. Accepting minutes from [<u>last meeting</u>](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1TndXeC3wQSZVEaB5ZGpEAaPRl1QAufSI)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

2. Project Status
-----------------

(2-3 minutes each)

-   Data-In (Ingest)

    -   Prod70 to be released today (pm)

        -   Software upgrade (OMERO 5.5, Bio-Formats 6), idr0022
            > (screening), idr0066 (mesoSPIM)

        -   Idr0022 RNAi cell migration screen

        -   No iviewer change

    -   Next release - HPA run 6

-   Data-Out (UI/Search)

    -   Iviewer 0.8.1 going out this week - few bug fixes

    -   Figure release to follow

    -   Improve IJ plugin, tested via personal update site (JM). Account
        > to be decided

        -   Discuss handling 2 imageJ plugins with LOCI

    -   Work-in-progress: Guides (was on hold due to other priorities)
        > [<u>https://omero-guides.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html</u>](https://omero-guides.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html)

        -   Java API and Scripting sections need completing

        -   CI work to deploy etc still needed

-   Python3

    -   omero-py (Josh):

        -   Have now run fully into the unicode fun that we were
            > expecting.

            -   New module to wrap with chosen behaviour? - cf kitchen

        -   Another pressing issue is the differentiation of rint and
            > rlong.

            -   Ice-Long and Ice-Int are different, even in python3.

            -   wrap() could default to rlong, specify rint when needed.

        -   May need to start disabling tests soon to make progress.

    -   Omero-web (Will)

        -   Similar but one additional issue is passing of methods
            > rather than strings

        -   Merge all of Django 1.9 PR?

-   SA (Seb)

    -   SSL renewal

        -   Learning outstanding

        -   Wildcard Expires Oct 2020

    -   CyberEssentials updates

        -   Forced patching of servers. Need to figure out how to manage
            > downtime etc.

    -   DNS of imagedata.science up for renewal. Keep?

        -   Seb: don’t see any relationship to “imagedata”. Branding is
            > “IDR”.

-   Glencoe (Chris):

    -   LDAP PR looking good - see PR for details

        -   Josh: port explanation from PR to docs (LDAP page already in
            > docs)

        -   Chris: makes sense to add a separate section.

        -   LDAP timeouts - ‘average’ experience in webclient, poor in
            > Insight.

        -   Probably don’t want exceptions to bubble up to clients

        -   PR in for 5.5.5. Other potential fixes to follow.

        -   Doc fixes can be released independently of OMERO releases.

    -   ROI tool repo - export from QPath.

        -   Then bring in ROI metadata code from Mark

        -   B-F tests - make portable

-   Next release - Mid October seems realistic

-   Community

    -   FYI: 3 workshops booked already for Jan 2020

        -   Local, Liverpool, Montpellier,

    -   Josh - spoke to Sanger yesterday. Central IT wrt crosslinking
        > with other DBs / resources.

3. AOB
------

(5 min. max; tech. Discussion should be highlighted to relevant people
and rescheduled)

4. Main Topic
-------------

(20-25 minutes plus 15 minutes questions max)
