Dundee:

Remote: Seb, Frances, Andreas, June, Dominik, Mark, Josh, Riad, Will,
Melissa,

> David, Simon, Wilma, Liza, Chris, Jason, Emil

Start: 2:00 pm

1. Accepting minutes from [<u>last meeting</u>](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1TndXeC3wQSZVEaB5ZGpEAaPRl1QAufSI)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

2. Project Status
-----------------

(2-3 minutes each)

-   Data-In (Ingest)

    -   IDR 0.6.7

        -   Frances: HPA run 5 to be included in prod67 as well as
            > idr0062 (nuclear segmentation). ETA: next week

        -   Josh: working to get
            > [<u>idr-ci</u>](https://idr-ci.openmicroscopy.org/jenkins/job/Trigger)
            > green. Testing Bio-Formats branch of IDR

            -   Next: web apps

        -   Simon: close to getting Bio-Formats backported to the
            > mainline?

            -   Seb: probably requires multiple weeks, few months of
                > work next. Initially identifying and controlling the
                > divergences

    -   Bio-Formats 6.1.1 (David)

        -   To be released next week

-   Data-Out (UI/Search) - 14:05

    -   OMERO 5.5

        -   Last week's testing uncovered a serious problem in
            > OMERO.server 5.5 with missing search results.
            > Investigating but no promising leads yet. Intermittently,
            > indexing omits some terms but with no difference even in
            > Hibernate Search TRACE-level logs. Likelihood appears very
            > system-dependent which is why this had been missed.
            > (Indexing works fine on merge-ci but on eel it has
            > difficulty with image names.)

            -   Jason: timescales.

        -   Josh: Sanger (Ola) looking to get involved into development.
            > Will probably get feedback on operating the new build. To
            > be turned into README eventually . Riad: adding README on
            > next to-do so that external developers can contribute.

        -   Having good starting point is next step (how does one get
            > into server).

    -   Gallery (Will)

        -   Lots of feedback. Addressing issues. Getting there.

        -   Jason to ask feedback from EuroBiomaging people at ELMI.

-   SA (learning/mail) - \~14:10

    -   Discourse: data sent for cost estimate. Lists next?

        -   Ongoing discussion about turning on mail-based threads on
            > image.sc

        -   FLIMfit also moving to image.sc

        -   Simon: email addresses for e.g. Docker images? Will have to
            > go somewhere

    -   Hoping to shut down forum threads. Final calls to close open
        > threads

    -   Mark: access to VMWare. Once search issue has been narrowed
        > down, expecting to focus back on the migration of learning.

-   Glencoe

    -   Chris: tracking down last set of changes related to Java 8
        > updates. No clear open-source announcement that OMERO 5.4.10
        > did not fix everything esp. with regard to the reporter.

        -   Mark: no known announcement.

        -   Seb: were hoping for a faster 5.5 release. Also, update
            > didnâ€™t make it into openjdk until quite late.

    -   Documentation for Ubuntu 18.04 from C. MacLeod integrated by the
        > open-source.

    -   Ongoing work on import related issues (symlinks). Will propose
        > changes for this workflow. Review other workflows.

-   Community

    -   Jason and Petr at ELMI for the rest of the week.

    -   OMERO Users Workshop Next Week

    -   OMERO Developer Day on June 12

3. AOB
------

(5 min. max; tech. Discussion should be highlighted to relevant people
and rescheduled)

4. Main Topic
-------------

(20-25 minutes plus 15 minutes questions max)
