---
title: 2019-03-05
---

Dundee:

Remote: Josh, Seb, Frances, June, Will, Melissa, Chris, Dom, Liza,
Simon, Mark, Riad, David, Emil

Start: 2:00 pm

1. Accepting minutes from [<u>last meeting</u>](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1TndXeC3wQSZVEaB5ZGpEAaPRl1QAufSI)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

2. Project Status
-----------------

(2-3 minutes each)

-   Data-In:

    -   Frances: prod65 in two-ish weeks with two new studies

    -   Seb: experimental IDR openmicroscopy m3 build, seems to be
        > working

-   Data-Out

    -   Riad: openmicroscopy m4 running in Travis, reduces boilerplate
        > configuration including in CI environments

-   Glencoe

    -   Chris: Internal OMERO backbone services running (without Ice),
        > new version of Vertx, using async workers. Waiting for OME to
        > move to Spring 4 before code can be cleaned up. Investigating
        > Hazelcast distributed maps for cross-process caching.

    -   Now looking at microservices especially queries for thumbnails-
        > all Hibernate queries will be read-only.

-   Community

    -   HCA (Josh): metadata team has gotten back about validation, want
        > a spreadsheet of files with information on required
        > validation. RFC is open, but no comments yet.

    -   HDF5 (Josh): visit at EMBL, met with several developers using
        > HDF5 and Imaris, potentially other formats, may or may not
        > become an OME library.

3. AOB
------

(5 min. max; tech. Discussion should be highlighted to relevant people
and rescheduled)

-   Will: 5-minute demo of iviewer ROI loading by tiles.

    -   Riad: Could use **heat-maps** instead of numeric counts of ROIs
        > in a region when too many to display?

    -   Will: Main restriction is lack of ability to query location
        > information for ROIs

    -   Chris:
        > [<u>https://openlayers.org</u>](https://openlayers.org)

        -   Even tile-based loading is likely to be too slow with many
            > ROIs on multiple planes. Might be acceptable with vector
            > ROIs but not with Masks.

        -   Queries probably end up being too case-specific

    -   Jason: Community will want support for very large number of
        > vectors and Masks

    -   Summaries, bounding boxes, centers of mass, density maps (of
        > cell type, etc)

    -   Close to having an API defined. Then could use postGIS or PSQL
        > geometry to store this information. Or maybe a file.

4. Main Topic
-------------

(20-25 minutes plus 15 minutes questions max) (Josh)

**OMERO Release Schedule Proposal**

-   M3: decoupling Feb 27

-   M4: indexer Mar 15

-   M5: insight Mar 22

-   M6: Matlab Mar 29

-   M7: Bio-Formats 6 Apr 06

-   First RC Apr 13

-   Weekly releases until 5.5.0 is out.

-   Note:

    -   Awareness of workshop (as a deadline)

    -   Blogging & communicating to developers

Out of scope but in follow-ons:

-   Python3 + No Ice

-   Microservices
