Dundee: J-M, Will, Petr, Mark, June, Simon, Jason

Remote: Josh, Andreas, Wilma, Liza, Chris, David, Melissa, Emil

Start: 2:00 pm

1. Accepting minutes from [<u>last meeting</u>](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1TndXeC3wQSZVEaB5ZGpEAaPRl1QAufSI)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

2. Project Status
-----------------

(2-3 minutes each)

-   Data-In (Ingest)

    -   idr0022 thumbnails generation ongoing

    -   J-M to discuss with Dom for next import

-   Data-Out (UI/Search)

    -   guides. Work in progress
        > [<u>https://omero-guides.readthedocs.io/en/latest/</u>](https://omero-guides.readthedocs.io/en/latest/)

        -   Use multiple repos to offer flexibility.

        -   TODOS: continue to migrate g.doc, add more text to
            > omero-guides, fix headers etc. Not ready for PR yet

        -   Port some pieces from old help site. Focus on web not
            > Insight

    -   Iviewer/figure release in the pipeline

        -   Figure to ready to go

        -   Iviewer: few (minor) bugs to fix, few noticed after 0.8.0
            > (out last week). Mainly in multi-view mode.

    -   Insight release before next workshop to fix issue with ImageJ
        > plugin on Windows. Problems are now fixed (fix to be tested)

-   Python3

    -   Moving forward with 5.5.dev1 then 5.5.1 (unless objections)

        -   Omero.web on testpypi

        -   Ready to get PR. Release often to reduce problem with doing
            > py3 work

        -   Tag at 5.5.1 on pypi since the code is the same as 5.5.1
            > (openmicroscopy), location has changed only. No impact on
            > users

    -   Integration test question

        -   Where do the test go?

        -   Recursive dependencies for tests

        -   Integration in main repo (similar to Java tests) (short
            > term). Move them to correct location when ready. Require
            > some work omero.py/omero.web have links

        -   From xx, omero.web will be only pip installable

        -   When done, Python3 works start

    -   PRs & docs

    -   Then onto python3

        -   Big question: py2/py3. Need to learn more. Support for both
            > at the same time will require a team effort

        -   Mark: drop support for py2? Effort to support both. If no
            > compatibility layer, full stack must be fixed in order to
            > work.

        -   Chris: py3 only is not enough: scope of version, OS
            > important to consider and decisions to be made

        -   Mark: TODO Review requirements page.

-   SA (learning/mail)

    -   Outreach transition: simon is making progress. TODOS; dns,
        > certificates. To be discussed in sysadmin room later

    -   Next week: go over Simon’s presentation (mid-sept)

-   Glencoe

    -   Monitoring, tracing microservices-server (deadlock issues)

    -   Port change to omero.web/python

    -   Major issue with Django version. Upgrade before py3 work.

        -   Josh: no version available

        -   Chris: Django 1.11 no reason not to update.

        -   Simon: Breaking change between versions (1.8-1.11)? Chris:
            > not aware of any

        -   Simon: Django 1.8 works with Python 3.5

        -   Chris: Django 1.11 Python 3.5+

        -   TODO: investigate which version can be used

        -   Jason: urgent action? No.

            -   Chris might try an upgrade to 1.11

            -   Simon: when so we can schedule work. Chris: no idea at
                > the moment. Chris to report next week

-   Community

    -   Petr to Lisbon next week

    -   [<u>Attendees
        > table</u>](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1iIMtv2HUIZrqg8qD98Toaut6tmGeUfcXaBcpzNM9oHA/edit)
        > (Please fill out)

    -   Jason: training materials for deployment. Transfer our knowledge
        > to other groups/projects

3. AOB
------

(5 min. max; tech. Discussion should be highlighted to relevant people
and rescheduled)

-   Jason: deadline Thursday for submission of EU grant. Jason thinks it
    > will not be funded (due to Brexit). Ready for other UK/US calls
    > coming the next few months.a

4. Main Topic
-------------

(20-25 minutes plus 15 minutes questions max)
