Zoom: Seb, Josh, J-m, Frances, Petr, Dom, Mark, Will, Wilma, Riad,
Simon, David, Melissa,

> Andreas, Emil, Chris, Liza

Start: 2:00 pm

1. Accepting minutes from [<u>last meeting</u>](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1-nAi33GaEswtSWpNIROxOcqZ2OSewSpQ7vJTJIR-2No/edit#heading=h.33u25cyvk5w9)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

2. Project Status
-----------------

(2-3 minutes each)

-   Data-In

    -   Bio-Formats 6.1 update:

        -   Testing stage. All major PRs opened. Ongoing integration.
            > Release candidate this week

        -   Incl. OMERO integration for testing (see below)

        -   J-M: testing pyramid bug fix (blocker for OMERO 5.5)

-   Data-Out

    -   Insight: all artifacts now available. Dmg built by travis and
        > uploaded when tag set, available on github

        -   Manual step to build on windows.

    -   Docs: ongoing work. Plan for Javadocs for OMERO 5.5. Riad
        > looking into slice2html.

    -   Josh: merge-ci status (Updated OpsX card)

        -   Only 1 location for testing your stuff

            -   [<u>https://merge-ci.openmicroscopy.org/jenkins/</u>](https://merge-ci.openmicroscopy.org/jenkins/)

            -   [<u>https://merge-ci.openmicroscopy.org/web/</u>](https://merge-ci.openmicroscopy.org/web/)

        -   1 Jenkins for testing B-F and OMERO. East and West going
            > away. Duplicate jobs on ci-master will be shelved.

        -   At the moment, fixing all remaining JAR weirdnesses to get
            > things green

        -   Only test merge BF + merge OMERO

        -   Valuable DB on ci-merge server?

        -   Will: various links to eel in PRs and cards.

        -   To discuss: what DB to use.

[<img src="/tmp/tuesday-meetings/images/media/image1.png" style="width:3.81579in;height:2.72396in" />](https://merge-ci.openmicroscopy.org/jenkins/job/Trigger/)

-   Glencoe (Chris)

    -   First OMERO 5.4.10 with BF 6 starting to ship to customers.

    -   BF 6 pyramids being created from stitching tools. Files being
        > used by customers

    -   Webinar next Tuesday (won’t be in this meeting)

    -   Seb: heads up - BF 6.1 might be more tricky wrt dependencies.

    -   Chris: BF 6 need was urgent. No need beyond 6.0.1 yet.

-   Community

    -   Petr and Dominic to Oxford for training tomorrow

3. AOB
------

(5 min. max; tech. Discussion should be highlighted to relevant people
and rescheduled)

4. Main Topic: Pre-summer priorities
------------------------------------

(20-25 minutes plus 15 minutes questions max)

-   Josh

    -   Update on status of IDR

    -   Refocusing: IDR 0.6.8 rather than IDR 0.7.0, end of June

        -   Gallery ✔ (*new user experience)*

            -   IDR Cells + IDR Tissues

        -   Search **!** (*no major deficiencies)*

            -   Need to work. Fixes something that appears as broken

            -   Follow-up of read-only split on IDR. Might affect any
                > big deployment similar to IDR

        -   Ingest **!** (*speed of)*

            -   Aka import + curation.

            -   Adding value. Simple fix: more data into the system. One
                > limiting factor is people?

            -   Import too slow (can’t be blocking)

                -   Petr: reference point?

                -   Seb: dealing with very large submissions (e.g.
                    > 100-1K plates) can take up to several weeks

                -   Chris: user-based expectation: import no longer than
                    > data transfer (close to the wall on 1536-well
                    > plates. \~20h)

                -   Liza: does someone see that estimate? Setting
                    > expectations. E.g. Email on completion. (Emil:
                    > depends on deployment since some don’t even know
                    > there *is* an import. I.e. it should just be
                    > there.)

                -   Riad: stats on bottlenecks? Josh: largely Postgres
                    > but needs more work

            -   Petr: Do we want more devs working on import, OR more
                > curators doing the imports?

            -   Simon - can we script more of the IDR import steps?

            -   Josh: limit to how many users can import at once without
                > killing server. Could make use of scripts.

            -   Seb: Frances spends more time on curation than running
                > import commands. Fixing readers, formats and guidance
                > for submitters etc.

            -   Chris: faster import benefits all of us as well as wider
                > community.

        -   OMERO 5.5 & Bio-Formats 6.1 **?** (*single codebase, new
            > submissions)*

    -   Other national/institute strategies

-   Questions

    -   Any thoughts on how to focus development priorities on those
        > lines?

    -   Are there any blockers in your way?

-   Gallery report (Will)

    -   Petr: searching for INCENP, are you still in cells or tissues?
        > (Missed where that happened). Will: show a reduced number of
        > hits (e.g. under tissues). But the auto-complete list of genes
        > is *not* filtered. (Only **bug**)

    -   **Design** to be decided. Liza: just worry about making it work
        > well.

    -   **Configuration** to be decided. Some IDR specific like whether
        > to split by name etc. for a given key. Simon: structuring of
        > metadata could be improved so it’s less hard-coded. Seb: we
        > can’t be sure how someone else has setup their metadata (like
        > ourselves) so good to have it configurable. Chris: burden on a
        > potentially complex configuration system (becomes code).
        > Simon: becoming the Lucene parser… Will: queries are written
        > like Lucene (in the configuration) but doing the filtering in
        > the page with Javascript. (Works at 60 studies). Simon:
        > remember that mapr configuration is very complex. No one using
        > it.

    -   Simon: Tag the few PRs then can deploy on **idr-testing** (and
        > fix the CORS)

    -   Chris: The more we can utilize **Lucene**, the better. (Fix
        > things that are broken, e.g. to prevent loading everything
        > into RAM)
