---
title: 2019-10-08
---

Dundee: N/A

Remote: Mark, Josh, Simon, J-m, Melissa, Chris, David, Frances, Will,
Wilma, Liza, Andreas

Start: 2:00 pm

1. Accepting minutes from [<u>last meeting</u>](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1TndXeC3wQSZVEaB5ZGpEAaPRl1QAufSI)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

2. Project Status
-----------------

(2-3 minutes each)

-   Data-In (Ingest)

    -   Frances: currently HPA run 6 going in for prod 71 and idr0069

-   Data-Out (UI/Search)

    -   Tagged yesterday

    -   Finishing [<u>notebook
        > prep</u>](https://github.com/ome/training-notebooks/pull/40)
        > for next workshop (NZ). This includes Fiji, Orbit, Ilastik
        > support then hold off on integration

    -   Deployment of vae fixed: gitlab-runner upgrade required

    -   Figure 4.1.0 did not get released due to another failure in
        > travis. Need to investigate issue (not figure related)

    -   Resources to focus on tasks with higher priorities (see below)

    -   Notebook PR with Orbit and Fiji code.

    -   After that, hold off integration of other tools for a bit.

-   Python3

    -   Slowly fixing tests...

    -   [<u>Unicode/String
        > notes</u>](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GnmD0CLhRehb0CTh-BBro6uxmSCYqZlfeQnKLnU-QUs/edit#)

    -   Getting others involved (failure chats)

    -   [<u>http://python-future.org/</u>](http://python-future.org/)

    -   Merging? → effect on latest-ci, will break but highlight this as
        > ‘top priority’

        -   Will allow new PRs to master instead of Josh’s py3\_1 branch

    -   Start ramping up next week.

    -   Chris: those outside our org may want to access those notes?

    -   Josh: few more people on board first, and agree on styles for
        > fixes

        -   Then create e.g. markdown file in repo.

        -   Chris: support py2 and py3?

        -   Josh: need to support py2 will decrease over time.

    -   Simon: don’t need to support py2 in OmeroWeb

    -   Will: so should we focus on py3 first?

    -   Josh: not yet, continue to fix failures in py2 first.

-   SA (learning/mail): N/A

-   Glencoe (Chris)

    -   Microservices

        -   Tracing infrastructure is almost done. Update vert.x deps at
            > same time

        -   Can upgrade spring in microservices to use same version as
            > OMERO 5.5

        -   Also JMX and prometheus, had some good success.
            > [<u>(diff)</u>](https://github.com/prometheus/jmx_exporter/compare/master)

        -   Trying to get docs up for this.

        -   Simplifying redis

    -   Issues with large X/Y image projections.

        -   No constraints in UI (needed) to avoid killing server (or
            > microservices).

        -   Click (web) refresh, click etc workflow causes problems.

        -   E.g. “Realtime proj not supported” message.

-   Community

    -   Josh: Osnabrück

        -   Unique IDs for integrating lab notebooks with OMERO

    -   This week: Petr & Dom in Freising using **workshop** server
        > and C. Evenhuis (Australia)  
        > **using outreach** to run his own session

    -   March Paris workshop.

    -   Montpellier in Jan

    -   Tokyo: metadata meetup in Jan/Feb.

3. AOB
------

(5 min. max; tech. Discussion should be highlighted to relevant people
and rescheduled)

4. Main Topic
-------------

(20-25 minutes plus 15 minutes questions max)

**Priorities (Josh/J-m)**

Lots of team away next 2 weeks.

-   IDR datasets (top priority)

    -   Need more help - get involved picking up individual studies.

    -   Idr0068 David? Needs BF fix.

    -   Too much for Frances and Seb.

-   Python3 (need team training, daily discussions etc)

    -   Reiterate at next Tuesday’s call
