Dundee:

Remote: Dom, Will, Simon, Emil, Andreas, Wilma, David, Melissa,

Start: 2:00 pm

1. Accepting minutes from [<u>last meeting</u>](https://docs.google.com/document/d/15CcIlb1UMjTK7rMai1jZWy4WyHgsSL7UC_FMQpBIBOU/edit)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

2. Project Status
-----------------

(2-3 minutes each)

-   Data-In (Ingest) Dom: HPA run 6. Ok (idr-next)

    -   Idr0069 Ok; will be imported to idr-next

    -   Idr0067 - few missing files. Copied over to EBI.

    -   Idr0068 - started to look at this. David - started to create
        > companion file to help import

    -   Simon: started to look at new dataset with tracks.

-   Data-Out (UI/Search)

-   Python3

    -   Will: Integration tests on python2 - tablestest and scripts
        > tests.

    -   Simon: some unit tests failing when run all together but passing
        > individually.

        -   Looking into tables fixes: mapping Int/Long to tables.

-   SA (learning/mail)

-   Community

    -   Munich / Friesing feedback on [<u>trello
        > card</u>](https://trello.com/c/YBuwmPBN/253-munich-freising-2019-training).
        > Good workshop.

    -   Hamilton (NZ) coming up

    -   Liverpool - rescheduling visit - talk on 29th Jan with workshop
        > in September

    -   Montpellier planning in progress.

    -   Paris - looking good.

-   Glencoe

    -   Chris & Kevin working on microservices tracing

    -   Edgecases HCS formats: Operetta. To be backported in due course

    -   Custom URLs to script outputs instead of messages to display
        > output.

    -   New member of Glencoe team. Douglas.

    -   Petr: Activities window with long message (e.g. long image name)
        > can break layout.

3. AOB
------

(5 min. max; tech. Discussion should be highlighted to relevant people
and rescheduled)

4. Main Topic
-------------

(20-25 minutes plus 15 minutes questions max)
