---
title: 2020-01-14
---

Dundee: Simon, Mark, Dom, Will, Petr, June, J-m

Remote: Josh (notes), Ola, Frances, Andreas, David, Jason, Melissa,
Liza, Emil, Chris

Start: 2:00 pm

1. Accepting minutes from [<u>last meeting</u>](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1TndXeC3wQSZVEaB5ZGpEAaPRl1QAufSI)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

-   ok

2. Project Status
-----------------

(2-3 minutes each)

-   IDR (Frances)

    -   HPA7 is good to go. idr0075 (honeybee) has been imported to
        > idr-next.

        -   Annotations next.

        -   Release next week.

    -   Downtime (Embassy migration)

        -   VMs got set up last week. (Focusing on Python 3)

        -   Currently hardware level issues. Needs debugging.

        -   JRS: 3 weeks until downtime? Deadline? End of the month
            > (**if** prod73 goes out)

        -   Rsync’ing is the biggest risk.

    -   EBI/IDR calls

        -   \~30K GBP for training (travel fellowships, etc.)

        -   Starting discussions on Friday.

        -   GBI likely to be funded as a project and for training.

        -   J-m: previously had worked on an IDR specific training. Know
            > some directions.

        -   EBI facilities are booked a year in advance

        -   Chris: cf. PathLake’s 5-day master class on ML, etc.  
            > [<u>https://warwick.ac.uk/fac/cross\_fac/pathlake/events/pathlake\_masterclass\_data</u>](https://warwick.ac.uk/fac/cross_fac/pathlake/events/pathlake_masterclass_data)

            -   JRS: “working with labelled data”? Yeah.

            -   Question of the hardware.

                -   Involving vendors? (Intel/Nvidia) Bring own gear,
                    > etc.

            -   Ola: try google colab notebook (there are GPU)?

-   Python3 (Josh / 14:14)

    -   PyPI releases went out Friday/yesterday; few issues.

    -   Going over [<u>release
        > board</u>](https://trello.com/c/aTc8vsvK/24-review-the-board-and-close-it);
        > downloads & docs not yet public.

    -   Announcing downtime for Thursday morning

        -   learning upgade Wednesday

        -   Demo can happen tomorrow (no downtime needed)

    -   Chris: various PRs coming once 5.6.0 is out.

    -   Shipping with B-F 6.3.1

    -   Various devspace work looming

-   SA (learning/mail) - N/A

    -   Simon: mail epic still needs thinking about

-   Glencoe (Chris / 14:25)

    -   Getting 5.6.0 testing environment set.

        -   Moving OMERO plus to Python 3 ASAP (end of month or into
            > Feb. if necessary)

        -   Sync’ing Java, PG, etc. versions as well.

    -   Moved customers off of OSS QA to GS QA.

    -   Warning: python2+centos7+https is wonky.

        -   Had to move urllib infrastructure to requests

        -   To be validated in Python 3

    -   PRs for new file formats this/next week.

        -   Sample data that can be shared (\~50%)

        -   JPEG-XR work is moving into bsd infrastructure.

        -   Might be slightly tricky. Cleans up licensing.

-   Community - 14:32

    -   J-m: Workshop in Montpellier in 2 weeks (on 5.6.0 !)

    -   JRS: users meeting announced. TBD.

        -   Day 1 standard. Day 2+3 flexible.

        -   Feedback from trainings about what to include.

        -   … need to nail it down in Feb.

    -   JRS: Code of Conduct

        -   OSS and/or UoD

        -   Enforcement is a question

        -   Public comments & funding agencies

    -   Promotional screens (stats)

        -   *Outside* the fishbowl?

    -   Wellcome visit

        -   Dom, Mark, Simon - \~15min visitor schedule on the 29th.

    -   Virginie Uhlmann’s seminar

        -   IDR discussions in the afternoon.

        -   Should be on the calendar.

        -   Zoom call, Meeting room.

3. AOB
------

(5 min. max; tech. Discussion should be highlighted to relevant people
and rescheduled)

-   Stephanie TIM 2020 workshop re: mobile internet (procurement)

Done: 14:52
