---
title: 2020-06-09
---

Attending: Dom, Seb, June, Petr, Frances, Mark, Melissa, Will, Josh,
Wilma, Andreas, Jason, Jean-Marie, Chris

Start: 2:00 pm

1. Accepting minutes from [<u>last meeting</u>](https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B9Xg53EhqUycZEVHclBwRHNFRGM)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

N/A

2. Project Status
-----------------

(2-3 minutes each)

-   IDR

    -   Frances: good. Working on next release (3 datasets in testing).

        -   Josh: should be first release back on EBI Embassy

-   SA (learning/mail)

    -   Mark: Google Groups looking promising, offering archiving and
        > moderation.

        -   Can subscribe users without them receiving mail, useful to
            > let automated systems submit notifications to list.

        -   Can coax subscription lists out of necromancer's Mailman by
            > unpickling list config and can bulk-subscribe in Google.

        -   Can fake list submissions without needing MX record
            > switched.

        -   Any final objections?

        -   Seb: migration timelines and any need for testing?

            -   Mark: still polishing the expected migration plan, get
                > procedure in place then circulate for feedback. Some
                > list specificities need to be accounted for

            -   Have other people joining for testing might come next

-   Glencoe

    -   Chris: bioformats2raw and raw2ometiff issues. Might need to
        > write tutorials next.

        -   Josh: material available. Question is where does it live
            > given both repositories.

        -   Chris: considering single external location.

        -   J-M: NGFF workshop guide migration? Josh: primarily waiting
            > on the renaming.

        -   J-M: also more and more material specific to IDR

-   Community

    -   Jason: Community Survey went out yesterday. Responses largely
        > positive. Appreciative of the work. Lots of feedback. Do not
        > edit!

        -   Remote aspect of the meeting was very much appreciated

        -   Looking forward to the future (still to be defined)

        -   Missing in-person discussion

    -   Grant reviews available. Overall positive and acknowledging
        > great work.

3. AOB
------

(5 min. max; tech. Discussion should be highlighted to relevant people
and rescheduled)

1.  Dundee ongoing WFH arrangements.

    1.  

4. Main Topic
-------------

(20-25 minutes plus 15 minutes questions max)

-   Jason: points to more general directions.

    -   Good response to new data vessels & workflows.

    -   Opportunities to bring this forward e.g. import

    -   Also metadata for correlative imaging, storing ROIs etc

    -   Moving into Summer with decreased team velocity (annual leave)

    -   Continue the trajectory of NGFF started in April. Metadata
        > specifications

-   Josh e.g. what if ROIs are no longer in the DB? How does that affect
    > our APIs like the iviewer issue above

    -   Start from IDR datasets, store ROIs in Zarr and use this define
        > new APIs

    -   J-M: also applies to results generated for an image e.g. Ilastik
        > probability maps

-   Jason: IDR datasets are great use cases for exercising these
    > directions

    -   Could we get all behind getting data imported in IDR? Distribute
        > datasets?

    -   E.g. idr0081 (adenovirus) has lots of interesting metadata that
        > could be used e.g. for parade

-   J-M: feedback from workshop also pointed towards making short videos
    > available (&lt;20min)

    -   Jason: appreciation of video content for the meeting (despite
        > timing & accessibility issues)

-   Josh: discuss IDR datasets post standup? Similar process to what
    > happened while discussing the conversion of 7 specific images
    > ahead of the meeting

    -   Possible topics: rendering, acquisition, plate, ROIs,

-   Will: Follow-up discussion on linking to ROIs in iviewer
    > [<u>https://github.com/ome/omero-iviewer/issues/308</u>](https://github.com/ome/omero-iviewer/issues/308)

    -   For single-shape ROI use case, open the image, left-hand panel
        > does not change (full image thumbnails, images in dataset
        > and/or well)

    -   How to construct the query with other parameters

        -   Generally scalability problem with creating a URL after
            > selecting N ROIs

        -   Jean-Marie: question of sharing the same view e.g.
            > resolution level

        -   Jason: are ROIs transmitted when clicking on viewport
            > settings?

        -   Josh: example of COVID datasets (single ROIs for each
            > figure).

        -   Chris: similar exposure with Pathviewer. Quickly get into
            > weeds when replicating what’s in the UI esp. When
            > considering active/inactive

        -   For single ROI case, capturing viewport is a good
            > workaround. Does not solve the bigger issue

        -   In pathviewer either show viewport or link to ROI and do not
            > allow configuration

        -   Will: main thing remaining is the control of the Zoom. Seb:
            > expand zoom level using bounding box of the ROI

    -   Multiple ROIs?

        -   Chris: do not allow unless you are ready to explain why some
            > of them are not showed

        -   Current implementation with multiple ROIs queries all images
            > associated with each ROI and displays them in the
            > left-hand panel

        -   J-M: issue of creating duplicate thumbnails

        -   Jason: would not break thumbnail/image paradigm in left-hand
            > panel

        -   If multiple ROIs are part of the same image, this loses the
            > ability to see all the selected ROIs at once

        -   Petr: cf feedback from EDI workshop with similar requests,
            > interested in group of ROIs. Chris: built Pathviewer grid
            > with that use case in mind, took &gt; 1 year. Very hard to
            > build generic solutions that are application-agnostic

        -   Jason: not even thinking how this would scale in the HCS
            > domain

    -   Seb: might need to solve 1 ROI/N shape problem

        -   Josh: do it iteratively, i.e. get rois=xxx first then
            > shapes==xxx

        -   Will: effectively the implementation is working on shapes at
            > the moment

        -   Chris: Support both URLs styles when selecting object

        -   When selecting a ROI, return rois or shapes?

    -   Petr: question of shape propagation through Z

        -   Jason: important but separate question. People in need for
            > this functionality.

        -   Chris: concepts around multi-shaped ROIs very loosely
            > defined.

-   
