---
tags: Tuesday
---

# 2020-10-27

## Attending:

Will, Petr, Dominik, Simon, Frances, Josh, David, Sebastien, Jean-Marie, Jason, Melissa, Chris, Erin, 

Start: 2:00 pm UK

## Accepting minutes from [<u>last meeting</u>](https://github.com/ome/meeting-minutes)

## Project Status

(2-3 minutes each)

- IDR:
  - Next release idr0088 - big drug screen, and idr0095. 
  - Expect to release next week
  - CSHL - 2 posters and 2 talks accepted on IDR and NGFF.
    - Posters to be uploaded tomorrow, feedback by EOB today

- NGFF
  - HCS status (releasing etc. for Thursday)
    - Performance issues in python and dask - viewing in napari
    - Next: port issue to spec.md
  - Zarr v3 spec RFC
    - Open for feedback
    - Draft implementation expected in Dec/Jan
  - Zarr/CloudVolume/Numpy twitter threads
    - PanGeo asking about working with CloudVolume (format from neuroglancer) - lots of features.
    - Also zarr
    - Encouraged to use existing formats
  - See "Main Topic" as well
  - Paper drafting - on gdoc
    - Metrics. Is new thing better/faster than existing solutions?

- Releases
  - No big release planned. Maybe iviewer ROIs loading?

- SA
  - Quotes for new hardware
  - Improving access to minio etc for zarr dataset export/publication

- Glencoe
  - ROI processing, masks with TileDB
  - Good progress with masks microservices, OMERO.tables, in pathviewer
  - Missing features in web API for tables
    - e.g. get rows with offset
    - Using tables linked to Image, instead of Plate, Screen etc.
  - Josh: example data of masks with multiple resolutions?
    - Chris: yes - 8k x 8k images. Stardist segmentations. 7 levels.

- Community
  - 4DNucleome project funded.
  - Sanger project funded. Human embryonic tissue imaging
  - EastBio workshop, Nov 3 - see OME calendar
  - MacGill workshop,
  - Global BioImaging - same content as I2K workshop.

## AOB

(5 min. max; tech. Discussion should be highlighted to relevant people and rescheduled)

## Main Topic - NGFF meeting on Oct 29th - Thursday

(20-25 minutes plus 15 minutes questions max)

 - 2 Sessons 11am and 5pm. Everyone's welcome
 - Will: demo.
   - Seb: # of requests? Should only be 4x well.
   - JM: Discrepancy in channel names.
   - Display of field of views?
   - Chris: Nice demonstrator. For HCS user, it will need lots of features. Not (yet) the point.
     - Possibly open a field-view on double-click? (If they exist)
   - Chris: number of calls is incredibly high. Cascade of failures.
     - Also looks like all calls are at the same time.
     - Slowing down viv and/or deck.gl?
     - Seb: new assumption on their side of thousands of images
     - Chris: our code is adding the tiles? Yes, but as a react callback for created layers. Chris: guess this is the same for an image that's zoomed out with very small tile size.