---
tags: Tuesday
---

# 2020-12-01

## Attending:
- Petr, Josh (notes), Dom, David, Seb, June, J-m, Melissa, Kevin, Wilma, Chris, Erin, Emil, Jason (14:14)

Start: 2:00 pm UK

## Accepting minutes from [<u>last meeting</u>](https://github.com/ome/meeting-minutes)
- ok

## Project Status

(2-3 minutes each)

- IDR (Seb)
  - Still trying to get release out before the end of the year.
  - Dealing with new range of submissions for publication in 2021.
  - Discussions around bridging IDR/NGFF/metadata. Ramping up next year as well.

- NGFF (Josh)
  - HCS/labels spec status:
    - latest and 0.1 updated (despite missing image.sc threads). Plan will be to announce & discuss with the community after I2K
  - Implementation status:
    - All PRs merged & tagged. Few bugs have shown up while testing from Java.
  - FYI: MoBIE status, see https://github.com/mobie/mobie-viewer-fiji/pull/147
    - Good to have someone testing from BDV
  - Next steps (0.2 & metadata)
    - Also need issue/blog post around doing the versioning

- Releases
  - J-m: Working on GHA
    - Preparing a list of repositories with GHA status
    - Fair bit to go, but several decisions have been made (templates) and just need rolling out.
    - Currently looking at the more problematic repos next (artifactory)
    - insight now working
    - GS has a mixed of appveyor & GHA. Long-term goal will be to move to GHA.
  - Seb: OMERO.web release was mentioned but hasn't happened
    - Work from Emil & Kevin
    - Will away next week.
    - Chris: really nice to have Kevin's PR. (Currently copying wheels around...)
    - J-m: requires doc release? Josh: blocking
      - Emil: just a new feature, script output type
      - J-m: ok, since doc releases are simplified but not there yet.
    - Seb: PRs are now in merge build; will list for tomorrow.

- SA: N/A

- Glencoe (Chris: not too much new)
  - Finishing up bioformats2raw changes
  - Adding new reader to Bio-Formats with sample data
  - Working on OMERO.tables as previously

- Community
  - J-m/FYI
    - McGill and Gothenburg last week
    - I2K this week
    - Next one: end of January. GBI/EOSC-Life
    - cleaning up guides after workshops
  - JRS: first 2 weeks of December are intense with meetings. Thanks all! :tada:
    - JRS: at 4DN, HDBI, etc.
  - I2K feedback

## AOB

(5 min. max; tech. Discussion should be highlighted to relevant people and rescheduled)

## Main Topic

(20-25 minutes plus 15 minutes questions max)
