---
tags: Tuesday
---

# 2020-10-20

## Attending: 

Will, Seb, Jason, Josh, Petr, Simon, Dominik, Frances, June, Emil, David, Erin, Melissa, Wilma, Kevin, Ola, Chris, Andreas

Start: 2:00 pm UK

## Accepting minutes from [<u>last meeting</u>](https://github.com/ome/meeting-minutes)

## Project Status

(2-3 minutes each)

- IDR
  - Next release end of the month
  - idr0088 to go ahead - big screen.
  - Started import ahead of time (takes a long time)
  - idr0095 - don't expect any problems
  - Seb: 2 talks and 2 posters at the CSHL conference.
  - 6 registered to attend
  - Josh: will discuss more on Monday but.. getting close to having 'Fire' access at ebi s3
    - Not public but it is backed-up etc.
    - Seb: can we use it for uploads?
    - Josh: assume we'd need something in front of it?

- NGFF
  - Labels: needs some marketing - spec is out but no comments from the community.
    - Jason: could write a paper - Josh: just need screenshots, or video would be nice
    - Post on image.sc and try to get feedback
  - HCS: progress and target demo
    - Target early next week to show something working.
    - 3 PRs:
      - Dom: generate zarr from omero-cli-zarr
      - Josh: ome-zarr-py to consume plate
      - Will: view in vizarr
  - Oct 29th meeting (OME2020 follow-up meeting), see image.sc
    - Adding Erin, Chris etc to list
    - Josh: several tangents. Try to get a handful of lightning talks. 5 mins each.
    - e.g. TileDB from Glencoe, HCS, labels, etc.
    - More content the better
  - Jason: consider a paper on all the work going back to zarr conversion etc.
    - e.g. Nature Methods paper - 300 words?
    - Josh: Trevor asking what reference to cite zarr work.
      - Paper too slow. Post to preprint archive?
  - Chris: will work on tiledb, etc. bioformats2raw HCS layout
  - Josh: also have a PR suggestion for Saalfeld re: N5+S3+Zarr

- Bio-Formats 6.6
  - Release delayed. Infrastructure changes discussed at meeting.
  - Mostly all merged etc.

- SA:
  - Seb: Everything recovered from last week, as far as we know.
  - Some infrastructure improvements in progress
  - Website updates faster - not tied to UoD

- Glencoe:
  - see NGFF as well.
  - More labels in tileDB
  - Windows fixes - few PRs.
  - Conversions for plates in prep
  - Labelled objects into OMERO.tables. HCS data.

- Community
  - CSHL preparation 4th Nov
    - See calendar for run-throughs
  - Ola: imported images with histograms etc in yaml
    - Moving to public instance soon
    - Josh: maybe want to add omero-zarr-ms microservice for public use?
    - Or could export as zarr to s3 etc.
    - Ola: OK, will get back to you
  - I2K meeting workshops - Nov 30th - Dec 2. 
    - **Link**: https://www.janelia.org/you-janelia/conferences/from-images-to-knowledge-with-imagej-friends
    - Josh: see hackMD with info
    - Heidelberg interested 
    - E.g use BigData viewer or napari, vizarr
    - Illustrate that data is BIG. E.g. McDole data.
    - Show how to create data (save for the end - not follow-along)
    - Submission by the end of the week.
    - What about other IDR / OMERO work?
    - Seb: workshops up to 4hrs max.
    - Petr: we have other workshops in the week before.
      - Not much time to create new workflow by then, but will do for GBI in Jan
      - Jason: can we re-use workflows, eg. idr0021?
      - Petr: big change to use IDR server instead of workshop server
      - Jason: I'll work with Petr on submission text. Josh to cover other workshop submission.
  - Petr: Jim Proctor also actively promoting work to make our training resources more "asyncronous"
  - Human Cell Atlas: interested in our work

## AOB

(5 min. max; tech. Discussion should be highlighted to relevant people and rescheduled)

## Main Topic

(20-25 minutes plus 15 minutes questions max)
