---
title: 2020-06-23
---

Attending: Josh, Will, Frances, Mark, Chris, Simon, Petr, Melissa,
Sebastien, Wilma,

> David, Dominik, Jason, Jean-Marie, Andreas, Emil,

Start: 2:00 pm

1. Accepting minutes from [<u>last meeting</u>](https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B9Xg53EhqUycZEVHclBwRHNFRGM)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

2. Project Status
-----------------

(2-3 minutes each)

-   IDR

    -   Idr0071 needs more testing: Simon:

        -   Imported to incorrect datasets due to
            > [<u>https://github.com/ome/omero-blitz/issues/91</u>](https://github.com/ome/omero-blitz/issues/91)

        -   32 images have excess metadata: Potential workaround

        -   Duplicate Project/Dataset names causing issues

        -   Plan to import then assess

        -   Frances: plan was for prod84 (with idr0079, idr0077,
            > idr0070)

        -   Could release prod84 with those. Need to contact idr0071
            > submitter

        -   Simon - import during this week. Discuss options on Monday

-   NGFF (Josh)

    -   Notes from [<u>yesterday's
        > meeting</u>](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1kCTxl9LpuDjDoF4hXayahbAkR8aM2IfTbXunOCE-tJc/edit#).

        -   Goal is to have masks in ome-zarr, i.e. bottom portion of:

        -   <img src="/tmp/tuesday-meetings/images/media/image1.png" style="width:3.34896in;height:1.55926in" />

        -   Simon working on spec

        -   Dundee team working on ‘bottom’ path above

        -   GS working on ‘top’ path.

        -   Omero-rois (python, OME team) used in IDR

        -   Omero-roitool (Java, GS) uses existing Java libs

    -   ITK
        > [<u>inquiry</u>](https://github.com/Kitware/itk-vtk-viewer/issues/315)
        > about location of spec to add support

    -   From napari zulip,
        > [<u>https://github.com/tlambert03/napari-omero</u>](https://github.com/tlambert03/napari-omero)

        -   Good to support masks

    -   Discussion with Erich Bremer - Stony Brook.

        -   Mostly were discussing the intersection of RDF with binary
            > data

            -   See [<u>\[2005.06469\] Representing Whole Slide Cancer
                > Image Features with Hilbert
                > Curves</u>](https://arxiv.org/abs/2005.06469)

            -   Spatially indexed representation of polygons to overlay
                > on images

            -   Done via a column store-like representation which could
                > be used within Zarr.

            -   … &gt; Pathology … &gt; … &gt; DICOM …

        -   But: Was unclear on tile server feature. Upcoming
            > publication of one (IIF-compatible) which could be
            > submitted back. Also has an CECOG-like HTTP implementation
            > for Bio-Formats.

        -   Also, successfully using
            > [<u>native-image</u>](https://www.graalvm.org/docs/reference-manual/native-image/)
            > (from GraalVM) to compile Bio-Formats to native code.

            -   Doesn’t support reflection - manual effort required

        -   Awaiting publication etc.

-   SA (learning/mail)

    -   VMWare hypervisor and firmware updates

        -   Rolling update of hypervisors, due to firmware updates will
            > require VMs to be updated at our leisure (proposed
            > timescale: over two week period following start of work by
            > UoD IT)

        -   Downtime needed. In touch with UoD IT.

    -   Mail migration: Last week's testing passed, list migration
        > underway this week.

        -   In retiring ome-nitpick in favor of omero-team, add Andreas,
            > Emil, Wilma to latter? Maybe Kevin? Happy to go with what
            > works for Glencoe. Current omero-team members are Chris,
            > Melissa, Stick.

        -   Chris: will discuss with GS team

-   Glencoe (Chris):

    -   Bioformat2raw work on Plates and Memoizer

    -   n5/zarr usage in Java investigation

-   Community

    -   Workshop videos? July?

        -   JM: video recording? Quality? zoom vs OBS etc?

        -   Jason: needs discussion later

    -   Community meetings? More frequent meetings suggested.

        -   Get some more work done first

        -   September

    -   Collaboration proposals

    -   

3. AOB
------

(5 min. max; tech. Discussion should be highlighted to relevant people
and rescheduled)

-   Office seating:

    -   If desk is taped off, choose another

    -   If you want to work in office, let Jason know.

4. Main Topic
-------------

(20-25 minutes plus 15 minutes questions max)
