---
tags: Tuesday
---

# 2020-11-10

## Attending:
Will, Petr, Sebastien, Frances, Jean-Marie, Dominik, Josh, Jason, Simon, June, Wilma, Andreas, Erin, Kevin, Melissa, Chris, Emil, 

Start: 2:00 pm UK

## Accepting minutes from [<u>last meeting</u>](https://github.com/ome/meeting-minutes)

## Project Status

(2-3 minutes each)

- IDR
  - Next release:
    - idr0088 - compound screen - some issues
    - idr0095 - rendering ongoing
  - Josh: aiming for 2 releases before end of year (this one plus one more)
  - Seb: new screen reader fix coming soon

- NGFF
  - HCS Status
    - Updated HCS metadata good to go - merge PRs etc.
    - Acquisition re-think (container vs metadata)
      - Hierarchy in ome-zarr (currently) vv not hierarchy in OMERO.
      - What do we want to show in clients? Hierarchy?
      - Propose staying close to OMERO model initially
  - I2K Status - chat last night
    - Tabular additions if possible for labels
    - Shortcuts if necessary - e.g. Mobi talking to n5
    - NB: EOSC & openscreen interest. Looking at our links
  - Metadata and Beyond
    - *After* plate and tabular data
    - BioHackathon Europe 2020 (cf. https://dev.idpcentral.org/registry)
    - BioSchemas & Google Search-indexing
      - production: Organism, Gene, Compound
      - draft: [Phenotypes](https://bioschemas.org/profiles)
      - Not yet: Cell Line
  - J-m: re: derived labels. Try to engage with RIKEN regarding BDML format within OME-Zarr. JRS: in the process of setting up a call to discuss with them.

- Releases
  - N/A

- SA
  - Issues with a PNG on Nightshade - Seb: BF fix
  - Need to schedule downtime to upgrade.
  - Seb: need someone to lead the upgrade

- Glencoe
  - More masks and conversions progress
  - Dealing with large numbers of masks
  - Looking at HCS support in bioformats2raw
  - Adding keys to labels for improved visualising, e.g. min/max values
  - Seb: seen https://github.com/ome/ome-zarr-py/issues/60? Not yet.

- Community
  - Workshops listed in 'ome' calendar
  - June: looks good
  - 4DN calls scheduled (see e-mails)
  - Jason: OME joining 4DN project and Sanger project
    - setting up slacks, wikis etc. Will invite OME team.
  - June: virtual frontiers meeting RMS clashes with team meeting 1pm on 17th.
  - Jason: Move to 2pm or 3pm on Thurs? TBD

## AOB

(5 min. max; tech. Discussion should be highlighted to relevant people and rescheduled)

## Main Topic

(20-25 minutes plus 15 minutes questions max)
