Dundee: (ghost town!)

Remote: Will, June, Seb, Frances, Petr, Dominik, Jason, Liza,
Jean-Marie, Mark, Josh, Wilma,

> Melissa, Chris, Kevin, Andreas,

Start: 2:00 pm

1. Accepting minutes from [<u>last meeting</u>](https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B9Xg53EhqUycZEVHclBwRHNFRGM)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

2. Project Status
-----------------

(2-3 minutes each)

-   IDR

    -   Data migration ongoing

    -   Working on datasets in the background. Getting in touch with
        > submitters

-   Next release

    -   PR review and freeze. Now down to easier ones like changelogs.

    -   Working through process to create RC1 and deploy for testing.

    -   Josh: working on autogenerated docs changes

    -   Where to put build artifacts for download/testing?

    -   Seb: how much testing needed?

    -   Testing on ‘old’ vv ‘rc1’ servers?

    -   JM: omero-web-install PRs need merging before docs

    -   Seb: staging website changes for review

    -   Mark: changelog PRs available for review please.

-   SA (learning/mail)

    -   IDR migration in progress. See on Monday

    -   Working from home going OK. sshuttle is good.

-   Glencoe

    -   Webinar prep. First one went well this morning. Using
        > pre-recorded videos to reduce stress on the day.

    -   Bio-Formats 6.4.0 setup with microservices builds etc.

    -   Omero-web PR merged today. In next release

-   Community

    -   OME meeting remote only. Contacting speakers etc with
        > [<u>updated
        > program</u>](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1qbkkBvpSzv2adT4uNMcJmv12KPlp5I3yv0Hxl73O3Gw/edit#gid=0).

    -   Announced generally on image.sc and twitter.

    -   Timing tricky with very diverse time-zones.

    -   Don’t want to spend all day in front of monitor.

    -   Post release next step is to start focusing on implementing this
        > agenda.

    -   Chris: easy to miss announcements on image.sc. Post on ome
        > website.

    -   Josh: website banner competition for space.

    -   Josh: image.sc - sometimes don’t see most relevant posts.

3. AOB
------

(5 min. max; tech. Discussion should be highlighted to relevant people
and rescheduled)

-   Calendaring: how is everyone doing:

    -   Don’t add things to old google calendar.

    -   Add things to your own calendar - Prefix with your name (helps
        > when viewing multiple person’s calendars).

    -   Copy across items from google calendar

    -   Make sure you can see everyone else’s calendar

    -   Change permissions to allow everyone on the team to see your
        > calendar.

    -   Josh: let’s work through this, next Thursday?

-   Working from home: how is everyone doing

4. Main Topic
-------------

(20-25 minutes plus 15 minutes questions max)
