---
tags: Tuesday
---

# 2022-07-05

Attending: Dundee: Will, Petr, Jason, June, Remote: JM, Dom, Frances, David, Josh, Andreas, Seb, Melissa, Suzanne, Melissa, Muhanad, Erin, Kyle, Mina, Stefanie WP, 

Start: 2:00 pm UK

## Accepting minutes from [last meeting](https://github.com/ome/meeting-minutes)

## Project Status

(2-3 minutes each)

- IDR
    - idr0133 released today - Cell Painting screen from Broad institute
    - Archiving test: small study idr0100 archived OK. Next test a bigger study
    - Search UI, incremental changes ongoing
    - Search-engine api released. JM to update notebooks.

- Bio-Formats
    - 6.10.1 roadmap
        - Review dependencies for ZarrReader and OMERO
        - Performance improvements to OME-Tiff
        - Release after holidays

- NGFF
  - bioformats2raw.layout - discussed at BF meeting yesterday
      - OK to move forward? Any vetoes
      - Add to 0.4 spec
  - JZarr off the ZIC
      - alternatives?
      - JM: lib still supported? - yes, but v3 won't be supported
      - Chris: may need to fork various libs
  - Java development (Janelia/EMBL)
  - Tables + Transforms in 0.5 spec release
      - Kevin and John Bogovic
      - What client support - how to document what clients support what spec?
  - Chris: also need to work on S3 access (choose a library, develop on it, etc.)
  - Melissa: writing up a spec based on the PR for series indexes

- Glencoe
  - See Bio-Formats above

- Community
    - Jason: OME-meeting: couple of invited speakers. Lots more to do...
    - TIM 2023 discussion: March 20-24

## AOB

(5 min. max; tech. Discussion should be highlighted to relevant people and rescheduled)

## Main Topic

(20-25 minutes plus 15 minutes questions max)

- I3Dbio GerBi and OME
- Stefanie: 
    - i3d:bio project - community of OMERO users
    - funding for positions to support users
    - How to collaborate with OME team to handle support?
    - See https://forum.image.sc/g/i3dbio 
    - Request/interest from GÃ¶ttingen (large multi-site OMERO incl. Max Planck)
      - issue with Abberior format
      - collaborate over image.sc or other channels / private discussion
      - could potentially make use of https://mattermost.gerbi-gmb.de/
    - Jason: great to see community develop in Germany
        - Could discussions start on image.sc (instead of move there later?)
        - Stefanie: discussions can be less organised with many users - commercial discussions not suitable
        - Jason: new PFF not supported by open-source
        - bridge Slack with other channels: https://github.com/42wim/matterbridge
    - Stefanie: communication important so as to not duplicate/waste effort
    - Jason: So much to work on. collaborate on repos?
    - Add I3Dbio reporting to our adgenda
        - OME team to join I3Dbio meetings?
        - Stefanie - I3Dbio happy to contact OME as needed
        - Jason: happy for I3Dbio or others to join OME meetings - issues with sharing agenda (google docs etc)
    - Jason: knowledge of using tech/tools often lags behind the tool capability
    - Seb: Abberior (OBF) example is a complex one because of their developers' involvement
      - e.g. https://github.com/ome/bioformats/pull/3528
      - Chris _et al._: presenting a unified front
    - JM: good to collaborate on documentation
    - Chris: Format discussions 1 to 1 with vendors less effective than showing community need in public discussion
    - In future: create HackMD agenda a week ahead and share link - e.g. slack.
    - 
