---
tags: Tuesday
---

# 2022-07-12

Attending: Petr, Seb, Josh, J-m, Frances, Jason, Dom, Andreas, Tom Biossonnet (HHU), Wilma, Kevin, Kyle, Melissa, Susanne, June, Muhanad, Erin, Chris, Mina

Start: 2:00 pm UK

## Accepting minutes from [last meeting](https://github.com/ome/meeting-minutes)

## Project Status

(2-3 minutes each)

- IDR (Frances)
  - Working on importing idr0120 for prod108
    - Planned release at the end of July
  - Testing storage solutions with the BIA team
    - archiving datasets to FIRE
    - continuing when Seb is back
  - J-m has updated the HumanMine notebook to v2
  - J-M working on a new notebook using mouse resources (mouseMine, impc) and IDR. "Mouse to Human" story

- OMERO (J-m)
  - Automation ironed out to have release artifacts automatically uploaded
  - Also of the version bump and various synchronizations (for docs)
  - Phase of simplification; currently testing cross-build matrix with ZarrReader and Bio-Formats

- Bio-Formats (Seb)
  - Not a lot to add to next week
  - Release with fixes (incl. OME-TIFF) forthcoming
  - Ongoing discussion around supporting external/commercial compression schemes (Jetraw)
    - Supporting in TIFF anyway is complicated based on the current ecosystem

- NGFF (Josh)
  - Formats meeting
    - Last minute addition to [bioformats2raw.layout](https://github.com/ome/ngff/pull/112)
    - [Process discussion](https://github.com/ome/ngff/issues/132)
    - Jason: better to get this in sooner rather than later?
        - Melissa: depends on the timeline for getting things integrated. Couple of weeks is fine but not ideal to wait e.g. several months
  - Zarr
    - Zarr ZEP0001 moving toward a vote
    - SciPy in Austin
  - Upcoming hackathon in Prague (largely Fiji; see zulip)
      - J-M: includes discussion on jzarr? Josh: assuming this community will rather use n5-zarr

- Glencoe (Chris)
  - Working on various build things to have m1 artifacts for Ice (wheels, etc.)
    - Leased m1 hardware.
    - Building the last 3 python versions. (Some arm-wrestling to ensue)
    - Likely to do the same for Linux. (manylinux is more python 3.8)
    - More transparency, etc.
    - J-m: seen some errors with 3.10. need to investigate more.

- Community
  - Tom: Welcome!
    - J-m: testing of [figure PR](https://github.com/ome/omero-figure/pull/472)
    - PDF script needs to be moved server-side. Needs some consideration.

## AOB
- hackmd pain
