---
tags: Tuesday
---

# 2022-11-29

Attending: Josh, June, J-M, Khaled, Seb, Melissa, Wilma, Chris, Kyle, Kevin, Erin, David, Tom, Jason, Will, 

Start: 2:00 pm UK

## Accepting minutes from [last meeting](https://github.com/ome/meeting-minutes)

## Project Status

(2-3 minutes each)

- IDR
  - J-m: Preparing improvements in the search. Focus is to move the last remaining UI components to the new backend. Goal is to release the first week of December, including the multi-node component. (Under review)
  - Seb: possibly have a working storage solution using Embassy S3. Need a call to "move to production".
  - Jason: re: IDR mailing list long-term thread regarding working with https://www.protocols.io/
    - Looking for IDR datasets that have protocols.io links. A few are perhaps on the way.
    - Initially, "just a link" to an external resource. Interesting idea for a value add.

- OMERO
  - J-m: looking into various PRs. Seb working on insight redirection to correct QA.
    - This will trigger a round of releasing the stack (incl. Bio-Formats)

- Bio-Formats
  - David: finalizing that at the moment. 6.11.1 patch release planned for Thursday (Dec 1)

- NGFF
  - Zarr v3 status [board](https://github.com/orgs/zarr-developers/projects/2/views/2)
    - feature freeze Dec 19 (no new issues)
    - if interested, plan some time into the new year

- GerBI
  - Tom: presentation on DMP at TiM next week when Petr is back.
  - Tom: server is now working.
    - Data in Hive. Import functioning. (Copy of training server so we can use the same material)
    - Into adding plugins OMERO.web via ansible. (Self-training)
  - JRS: kudos on the Hive milestone :tada:
  - Tom: OMERO.figure PR? Will -> J-m

- Glencoe
  - Chris: getting PRs in for the end of the year.
  - Few issues raised on the omero-certificates front (due to cryptography libraries & dependency hell)
  - Needed for newer distros and versions of Python.
  - May need more rapid releases to keep people running.
  - Accepting complexity burden.

- Community
  - Training roadtrips starting again. 

## AOB
- Power Outages
  - Rolling?
  - Unsure what it means for the university, IT systems, and availability.

(5 min. max; tech. Discussion should be highlighted to relevant people and rescheduled)

## Main Topic

(20-25 minutes plus 15 minutes questions max)
