---
tags: Tuesday
---

# 2022-03-15

Attending: Will, Seb, Petr, Dom, Josh, David, Khaled, June, Melissa, Chris, Jean-Marie, Jason, Mina, David S, Erin, Wilma, Andreas, Emil

Start: 2:00 pm UK

## Accepting minutes from [last meeting](https://github.com/ome/meeting-minutes)

## Project Status

(2-3 minutes each)

- IDR
    - Datasets - next release in April
    - Landing page / videos
      - Better home page, New idr-gallery repo
      - Working on deployment
    - Search
      - replace mapr-based search
      - prototype stage
    - Storage 
      - See NGFF - convert and import

- NGFF
  - ZarrReader: v0.4 [#8](https://github.com/ome/ZarrReader/pull/8) merged. Moving to issues.
  - [Metadata](https://github.com/ome/ngff/issues/104): minimal investigation leading up to meeting 
  - Decision points: Chunking API, IDR driver, s3 vs. local, etc. Maybe leave s3 support for next round of work
  - Also: transforms, workshop, [ZEP Proposal](https://github.com/zarr-developers/governance/pull/16)
  - Jason: image.sc? Josh: needs context. Maybe mid-April
  - NGFF metadata Meeting next Tuesday 1pm UK.
    - Roadmap and triaging issues

- Django
    - omero-web rc1 available + apps including mapr ready for deployment testing.
    - No news on web-tagging see [PR 72](https://github.com/MicronOxford/webtagging/pull/72)
    - Doc decision ([Background](https://github.com/ome/omero-documentation/issues/2198))
      - some installation adjustments required for Django
      - Options: 
        - make change on "live" version 
        - migration to rtd. Doc version is coupled with openmicroscopy release. For that option decisions need to be made i.e. versioning of the doc, versioning within the documentation itself. Extra body of work.
      - Python 3.8 changes next
    - Seb: planning full OMERO release, to include Bio-Formats updates
    - Aim to release towards end of March
    - Chris: could make a patch available to allow webtagging to run.

- Glencoe
  - Django migration guide
  - omero-web PRs open
  - Melissa: tests and cleaning-up
  - New hire: Kyle

- Community
  - i3d:bio kicked-off, 3 devs: front-end, backend, Suzanne. Interested in joining these meetings. DFG-funded effort to make OMERO more accessible. Josh: encourage ansible playbooks. Better experimental metadata support.
    - Chris: translate UIs? Josh: haven't heard that this is an issue.

## AOB

(5 min. max; tech. Discussion should be highlighted to relevant people and rescheduled)

## Main Topic

(20-25 minutes plus 15 minutes questions max)
