---
tags: Tuesday
---

# 2022-10-11

Attending: Seb, Josh, Dom, Frances, David Gault, Petr, Tom Boissonnet, David Stirling, Khaled, Chris Allan, Wilma, Mina, June, June, Kevin, Andreas, Melissa, Muhanad

Start: 2:00 pm UK

## Accepting minutes from [last meeting](https://github.com/ome/meeting-minutes)

## Project Status

(2-3 minutes each)

- IDR
  - Frances: working on prod111 which will include a new study (screen). Still testing .
    - includes fixes for historical annotations which should lead to cleaner search results
    - working on search phase 2 including mapr fixes for the gallery UI
  - Storage
    - Seb discussing with Matthew Hartley different (hierarchical) storage strategies

- OMERO
  - Upcoming patch releases of omero-web etc. here soon

- Bio-Formats
  - David: pushing out 6.11 on Thursday _without_ Jetraw. That PR is ongoing.

- NGFF
  - 0.5 schema proposals coming post meeting for review, followed by schema freeze.
  - Some proposals available for path encodings in https://github.com/ome/ngff/issues/144 . Thoughts welcome.
  - Heads up that the Zarr [Outreachy cohort](https://outreachy.org/) is particularly large.

- GerBI
  - Tom: TiM 2023 preparations
    - Acquifier already has a Hive with OMERO installed (on Linux VM)
    - In 2 weeks, testing of that should begin.
    - Also have a Hive available locally in Düsseldorf for testing. Can perhaps install a VM as well.
    - Petr: when & where would the database be accepted?
      - Tom: doing everything remotely for installation.
      - Could load it in two weeks as well. Zenodo ok? Yes. (60-70 GB)

- Glencoe
  - Chris: small number of changes (with potentially big impact)
    - in pursuit of server/web install on Ubuntu 22.04 (Python 3.10, OpenSSL 3)
    - conda & MacOS also have issues. esp. when OpenSSL bumps.
    - integrate omero-certificates with the main stack? (basically a requirement now)
    - some harder decisions to make moving forward. (docs & support)
  - Melissa: aware of spec changes coming but no action items yet
  - Seb: limitations of the Duplicate command.
    - esp. around ExternalInfo, since that's not used in the OSS version
    - most of the work is in the test coverage
  - Chris:
    - some of the importing classes need subclassability
    - can be wrapped into a single blitz release

- Community
 - Discussion on OME Community meeting
 - Petr: 1 hour consultation in Edinburgh tomorrow (mostly PIs)

## AOB

(5 min. max; tech. Discussion should be highlighted to relevant people and rescheduled)

- Nada

Done: 14:23 UK
