---
tags: Tuesday
---

# 2022-08-23

Attending: Will, Dom, June, Petr, David, Frances, Khaled, Jean-Marie, Tom Boissonnet, Seb, Andreas, Melissa, Muhanad, Mina, Kyle, Kevin, 

Start: 2:00 pm UK

## Accepting minutes from [last meeting](https://github.com/ome/meeting-minutes)

## Project Status

(2-3 minutes each)

- IDR (Frances):
    - prod109 release with idr0134 - final checks. Expect to release on Thursday
    - Fire testing ongoing (Seb) - testing tomorrow
    - Search UI roadmaps well defined, with short-term and long-term goals. First phase: search for 'Any' key...

- OMERO:
    - omero-figure updated on various systems
    - BioFormats released - server etc to come

- Bio-Formats (David):
    - reviewing contributions from Glencoe. Could be released in September (mid/late).

- NGFF -

- GerBI (Tom):
    - Developing recommendations on how to annotate data. Which annotations and formats to use for various types of metadata. E.g. ontologies. REMBI
    - Frances: will share IDR templates. Will add to Notes (Empty templates can be downloaded here https://github.com/IDR/idr0000-lastname-example/archive/master.zip, completed templates of studies here https://github.com/IDR/idr-metadata/).
    - Petr: tips on Key:Value pairs to prepare for searching See https://omero-guides.readthedocs.io/projects/introduction/en/latest/search-omero.html?highlight=search#search-examples

- Glencoe -

- Community (Petr)
  - TIM 2023 (March) workshop preparation with Thomas Zobel and team, Munster University. 
      - OMERO workshop and Analysis workshop
      - Use OMERO for storage of images acquired in other workshops, importing from Hive

## AOB

(5 min. max; tech. Discussion should be highlighted to relevant people and rescheduled)

## Main Topic

(20-25 minutes plus 15 minutes questions max)
