---
tags: Tuesday
---

# 2022-09-06

Attending: Frances, Will, JM, Petr, Tom Boissonnet, June, Seb, Melissa, David, Khaled, Chris, Kyle, Muhanad, Susanne, Emil, Mina, Kevin, Jason, Erin, 

Start: 2:00 pm UK

## Accepting minutes from [last meeting](https://github.com/ome/meeting-minutes)

## Project Status

(2-3 minutes each)

- IDR (Frances):
    - testing done for next release datasets
    - Storage: HPA first 1 antibody moved to FIRE ready for testing
    - Search UI: good progress on phase 1. Testing ongoing, stress testing planned

- OMERO (JM):
    - few PRs from Glencoe
    - To coordinate with Petr on how to release various components

- Bio-Formats (David):
    - patch release expected in 2 weeks as planned
    - To include Glencoe changes and 3rd party fix (Leica)
    - getUsedFiles to return smaller number of files for NGFF plates

- NGFF (Will):
    - couple of PRs open for fixes to dask writing

- GerBI

- Glencoe (Chris):
    - Bio-Formats changes investigation & tests
    - Testing to deal with various OME-TIFF writing methods
    - Erin: going to https://sbi2.org/2022-conference/ 
    - Chris: dealing with licenses for dependencies
        - JM: might be possible to automate

- Community
    - Annual Meeting Program, invites, etc. [Planning doc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1dhs-oWwo7JeVwNoZK-e01KZdbbi81MMPFCDxDfmLA8c/edit#heading=h.wuom1eccyacx)
    
## AOB

(5 min. max; tech. Discussion should be highlighted to relevant people and rescheduled)
- IDR Proposal [Reviews and Responses](https://drive.google.com/drive/u/1/folders/1u2dUjet_Leta-qDs42qzl6r6tFA0l6c4)
- Resources for training/outreach
## Main Topic

(20-25 minutes plus 15 minutes questions max)
