---
tags: Tuesday
---

# 2022-07-26

Attending:J-M, Seb, Josh, David, Jason, June, Dom, Frances, Khaled, Melissa, Mina, Andreas, Wilma, Chris

Start: 2:00 pm UK

## Accepting minutes from [last meeting](https://github.com/ome/meeting-minutes)

## Project Status

(2-3 minutes each)

- IDR
    - release yesterday idr0120 (prod108)
    - testing new storage at EBI: 
       - ongoing working on access time
       - reported to Matthew. Ongoing discussion.
       - usability/credible solution to be evaluated
       - other tools to be considered/tested as alternative solutions e.g. store in S3 and access from IDR
      
- OMERO
    - SCL Python work
    - Also threads about environment support (RHEL9 etc)
        - Chris: patches for Ice/Ubuntu 22.04 not too critical. Some work in progress already 

- Bio-Formats
   - David: 
       - catching up post holidays
       - ramping back up on testing open PRs
       - looking at last few fixes for a patch release. 
       - Timeline for release of the patch release will be aiming for getting remaining PRâ€™s merged this week and looking at a release next week

- NGFF
  - [CZI single-cell RFA](https://chanzuckerberg.com/rfa/single-cell-data-insights/)
      - Upcoming proposal for NGFF/AnnData 
  - CZI EOSS4 reporting ongoing (EOSS1 finally closed out!)
  - Assume transformations call is now post-summer
  - [Zarr 3.0 final review](https://github.com/zarr-developers/zarr-specs/pull/149)
    - interesting questions about separation of metadata. MIght be something we could leverage  
    - jzarr implications
    - meeting in the next week or two?
    - Chris: perception of the handling of authorization/authentication has gotten worse. Huge implication on Bio-Formats/data access, providing credentials
    - Possibly need to decide public vs private data and whether we need two solutions or can define a single one

- Glencoe
   - Focusing on customers related issues
   - Channel approach in OMERO can be problematic in some cases.
   - Extension to OMERO.web to support multi-users: Allowing to swith context
   - Exposing features from CLI to Web.
   
- Community
  - FYI: GBI course next year in Japan (first week of July)
  - Community meeting (virtual):
      - plan in progress, to be ready before end of the week.
      - suggestion: 
        - couple of days for presentation/discussion week 14/11
        - couple of days for workshops (2 weeks later)

## AOB

(5 min. max; tech. Discussion should be highlighted to relevant people and rescheduled)

## Main Topic

(20-25 minutes plus 15 minutes questions max)
