---
tags: Tuesday
---

# 2022-09-27

Attending: Dundee: Will, Petr, June, Remote: Chris, Frances, David, Kyle, Melissa, Seb, Muhanad, Khaled, David S, Mina, Jason, 

Start: 2:00 pm UK

## Accepting minutes from [last meeting](https://github.com/ome/meeting-minutes)

## Project Status

(2-3 minutes each)

- IDR (Frances):
    - prod110 release on Thursday with idr0141 and Phase I of new search UI.
    - Dataset testing done. Some final search testing
    - Seb: FIRE testing - EBI call scheduled
    - Jason: thanks for all the work on search

- OMERO:
    - some small PRs omero-web "quiet humming"

- Bio-Formats
    - going ahead with release next week (some external PRs not included)

- NGFF
    - New bioformats2raw spec announcement in prep.
    - 0.4 spec, HCS, multi-image handling
    - NGFF community call next week 5th Oct

- GerBI

- Glencoe (Chris):
    - all good (NGFF etc above)

- Community
  - Annual Community Meeting Agenda and Dates (Jason)
      - OME org gdoc: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1dhs-oWwo7JeVwNoZK-e01KZdbbi81MMPFCDxDfmLA8c/edit#heading=h.wuom1eccyacx
      - Plan to announce on image.sc later this week - any vetoes?
      - Workshops can be organised by OME, Glencoe or others
      - No videos to be pre-recorded
      - Seb: how many concurrent sessions?
          - Jason: probably best to have 1 at a time
          - And aim not to repeat workshops
      - Jason: OME to do 3, plus some on NGFF (Josh), 2 keynotes
  - We have funding for SSBD collaboration - galleries, search, landing pages etc.
  - Petr: Edinburgh outreach visit on the 12th
  - TIM 2023 planning ongoing

## AOB

(5 min. max; tech. Discussion should be highlighted to relevant people and rescheduled)

## Main Topic

(20-25 minutes plus 15 minutes questions max)
