---
tags: Tuesday
---

# 2021-11-30

Attending: Chris, Josh, Will, Seb, Petr, Dom, Frances, Khaled, David, Jean-Marie, June, Melissa, Muhanad, David S, Erin, Jason, Emil

Start: 2:00 pm UK

## Accepting minutes from [last meeting](https://github.com/ome/meeting-minutes)

## Project Status

(2-3 minutes each)

- IDR
  - preparing last release for this year, 2 studies. Aiming for next week.
  - Seb: showcase discussion ongoing
  - 4DN - genomic loci representation
  - Channels metadata (labels, stains etc) discussion
  - JM: searching in UI - pombe? Tech or UI limitation?

- NGFF
    - Paper published!
    - Validation (Josh)
      - Roadmap - see e-mail
      - openminds: Lyuba Zehl. (https://vimeo.com/605602233)
        - shacl generation - should be doable
        - thinking of using pydantic
      - Java
        - Need samples for testing ZarrReader
        - TODO add support for JSON schema validation
        - No support for JSON-ld
    - Validation (Will)
      - validation PR is in
      - now trying to apply some of the ideas to the collection PR
      - https://github.com/ome/ngff/issues/31
      - Josh: good questions on the identifiers but we'll need to evaluate some alternatives
      - Seb: dangerous to say an identifier "must be" a path
    - Samples (Seb)
      - Trying to get a copy off of S3 onto Zenodo - DOI etc.
      - Copy of data_repo is good but also not sufficient
    - Rendering (JM)
      - [latest proposal](https://github.com/ome/omero-cli-render/issues/55#issuecomment-979227548)
      - One question about LUT to possibly tackle
        - Jason: nothing systematic in the community?
        - No: Just ImageJ. several different formats/readers
        - Chris: known as palettes 
      - Will: Next step is to open up to community as NGFF issue?
        - J-m: getting some code in place, then yes.
    - ome-zarr Test suite (JM) - Sync with Chris

- Releases
    - Bio-Formats 6.8.0 (David)
      - on track for release mid next week
      - few PRs outstanding - Leica and DICOM

- Glencoe (Chris)
  - formalise HCS spec
  - Will update ngff spec PR
  - Seb: generating sparse plates to compare, then will test the PR

- Community
  - SLS Datacentre work announcement, weekend 10 day's time
  - Best place to announce potential downtime to community?

## AOB

- Managing desktops
 
(5 min. max; tech. Discussion should be highlighted to relevant people and rescheduled)

## Main Topic

(20-25 minutes plus 15 minutes questions max)

- Roadmap (Josh)