---
tags: Tuesday
---

# 2021-10-19

Attending: Will, Dom, Petr, David, Khaled, Josh, Melissa, Jason, Wilma, Andreas, Jean-Marie, Andreas, Erin, Chris, David Stirling, Kevin, June (apologies - late due to internet issues)

Start: 2:00 pm UK

## Accepting minutes from [last meeting](https://github.com/ome/meeting-minutes)

## Project Status

(2-3 minutes each)

- IDR:
  - NIH, Allen Institute call. Usage, access questions, "success stories"

- NGFF:
  - Final version of OME-NGFF Paper submitted, including editor's final edits.
  - Will: pages of discussion on NGFF issue 31 (collections). Have something close enough that can start implementing.
    - The core is quite simple (just collection of paths) and covers the omero-cli-export need and can then be viewed in vizarr.
    - Even with just that requirement there are ongoing discussions. List v. dictionary, etc. Hierarchy of collections.
  - Dom/Rendering: Discussing the potential spec on the cli-render plugin repository.
    - https://github.com/ome/omero-cli-render/issues/55
    - J-m: LUT are a potentially problematic issue.
    - Will: increasing the vibility of the issue?
    - J-m: will escalate after some internal discussion, look at other tools, BDV, etc.
  - Josh: transformations spec v0.4 nearing completion, driven by community
    - implementations in Mobie and napari 

- Releases
  - Security release last week
  - Well recieved by users/customers

- Glencoe
  - Upgrading customers
  - Internal meeting prep

- Community
  - Report from NIH/Allen Meeting 
    - Image data discussion - ~ 30 participants, journals etc
    - Good acceptance of OME and OME-NGFF
    - Lots of good will
  - Demo 4DN next Tuesday meeting, using idr0101 and nucleome browser
  - Spatial Transcriptomics -> Imaging movement. More data sharing

## AOB

- Next week, Demo from Jian Ma's group, integration of idr101 with Nucleome Browser
(5 min. max; tech. Discussion should be highlighted to relevant people and rescheduled)

## Main Topic

(20-25 minutes plus 15 minutes questions max)
