---
tags: Tuesday
---

# 2021-09-14

Attending: Will, Jean-Marie, Frances, Khaled, Dom, Josh, Petr, Andreas, Seb, Wilma, Chris, Melissa, Jason, Muhanad, Emil, Kevin, 

Start: 2:00 pm UK

## Accepting minutes from [last meeting](https://github.com/ome/meeting-minutes)

## Project Status

(2-3 minutes each)

- IDR
  - prod101 ongoing. idr0101 and idr0116
    - Both on track for release end of September

- NGFF (Josh)
  - Zarr logo and trademarking
    - NumFOCUS starting to look into this
    - Will: naming NGFF vv Zarr?
    - Spec says ".zarr" and needed for napari
  - ZarrReader: PRs for stabilization open
    - Start to test against our resources
    - Need to define version of jzarr
  - Meta-Micro App also looking into K/V pairs
    - e.g. RDF, sparkle, JSON
  - EMBL discussions:
    - Fiji use of OME-Zarr (today in gather.town)
    - Spatial-omics (& SMLM) end of Sept. cf. AnnData
      - Linking OME-NGFF with AnnData
    - Collections (with spatial transformations)
  - GBI EoE: use-cases
    - How to show utility of conversion and storage of data as NGFF?
    - Jason: Users: "is this the long-term solution?" (link to future of training)
      - limited infrastructure, but keen to participate and benefit from international development and capabilities
    
- Releases
  - insight (bugs fixing release source of many QAs) 

- Glencoe
  - webclient Tags tree differences from main PDI tree, e.g. pagination

- Community
  - Josh: French networking of analysts
  - Turku workshop: November

## AOB

(5 min. max; tech. Discussion should be highlighted to relevant people and rescheduled)

## Main Topic

(20-25 minutes plus 15 minutes questions max)

- OKR: proposed roadmap for Oct-Dec
  - NGFF to date: multiscales, labels, HCS.. what next?
  - Spec: collections, rendering settings, key-value pairs...
  - OMERO: export and re-import of these
  - Community output: e.g. blog post, NGFF call in December