---
tags: Tuesday
---

# 2021-11-23

Attending: Will, Petr, JM, Josh, Khaled, Jason, Seb, Chris, Frances, David Gault, Melissa, Wilma, Andreas, Muhanad, David Stirling, Emil, Erin, Dom

Start: 2:00 pm UK

## Accepting minutes from [last meeting](https://github.com/ome/meeting-minutes)

## Project Status

(2-3 minutes each)

- IDR
    - prod103
    - BIA meeting this morning, Submission workflow.

- NGFF
    - OME OKR
    - Validation ongoing
      - Will: evaluated 3. different trade-offs. more powerful one (SHACL) is also the most verbose.
      - Josh: OME-RDF/OME-OWL. Norio handling similar problems. Looking into other frameworks.
      - Possible use JSON-schema for now and provision so that we can update to JSON-LD
      - Seb: major issue with using multiple validations?
      - Josh: issue comes with trying to validate 3rd party JSON schemas?
      - Chris: even in XML world, can be pretty ropy.
      - Jason: something we can do in the near term?
      - Seb: is it infrastructure we can attach to 0.3 specification? 
      - Josh: can apply JSON schema to 0.3 without breaking. Introduce e.g. 0.5 which requires header of JSON-LD. Can introduce collection at this stage.
          - Then can subclass e..g. 4DN
          - and have libraries that allow to tell what is in there.
          - Possible next experiment OME-XML -> OME-JSON -> NGFF
    - Rendering call tomorrow
        - J-M: upcoming meeting. Would be useful to start thinking about validation as well. Align proposed changes and create examples
    - HCS spec - support for sparse plates
      - Seb to review. Possibly include in v0.4
      - Chris: may even want to enforce more strict rules

- Releases
    - Bio-Formats 6.8.0
      - prep in progress. expect to release 2nd week in December
      - GS fixes and other PRs - minor release

- Glencoe
  - See Bio-Formats above
  - Update to latest omero-web 5.12.0
  - Single sign-on being rolled out (incl. openID connect from Azure space)
  - looking into issues in blitz for NGFF microservices
      - worst offender is getting channel info (needs init. the RE)
      - fixes perhaps coming to omero-py and/or docs
  - Auth: pre-signed URLs, not ideal but workable option
  - Josh: sharding to reduce number of chunks: https://github.com/zarr-developers/zarr-python/pull/876

- Community
  - Petr: another 1hr demo tomorrow
  - JM: discussed with BioImage zoo at Crick
  - OME-Zarr Hackathon in Milan in January

## AOB

(5 min. max; tech. Discussion should be highlighted to relevant people and rescheduled)

## Main Topic

(20-25 minutes plus 15 minutes questions max)
