---
tags: Tuesday
---

# 2021-11-16

Attending: Will, Jean-Marie, Petr, Josh, Khaled, Seb, Jason, June, Andreas, Muhanad, Wilma, Erin, Kevin, David, Chris, David Stirling, Emil, Melissa,

Start: 2:00 pm UK

## Accepting minutes from [last meeting](https://github.com/ome/meeting-minutes)

## Project Status

(2-3 minutes each)

- IDR (Seb)
    - release last week - 2 Studies
    - expect 1 more release before end of year
    - prod102 and roadmap towards prod103
    - new datasets & NGFF
      - too big for standard workflow ~50TB+
      - new solutions needed
      - Jason: level-up the definition of "reference dataset"
      - e.g. very large stitched image, lots of ROIs etc. Beyond our current tooling

- NGFF
    - OSS roadmap && [Compatibility matrix](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/12I3UxVWlQaRqsrNWZIEdLCik7Ycq8lKy8oOHVIu98ZA/edit#gid=1917818996)
    - rethink current objectives
    - tooling, samples etc update to latest spec

- Releases
   - omero-web 5.12.0 
   - Bio-Formats 6.8.0 roadmap
       - Get current work releasable
       - release before DICOM work or combine?

- Glencoe
  - finding minor omero-web issues with image-data work

- Community
  - Turku (done)
  - EastBio (to come, Thursday)
  - Karolinska (Jan)

## AOB

(5 min. max; tech. Discussion should be highlighted to relevant people and rescheduled)

## Main Topic

(20-25 minutes plus 15 minutes questions max)
