---
tags: Tuesday
---

# 2021.08.03

Start: 2:00 pm UK

## Attending

- Seb (chair), Josh (notes), Petr, June, Frances, Andreas, Khaled, Dom, Kevin, David, Jason, Muhanad, Erin, Melissa, Emil

## Accepting minutes from [last meeting](https://github.com/ome/meeting-minutes)
* ok

## Project Status

(2-3 minutes each)

- IDR (Frances)
  - prod99: **ASAP** (this afternoon)
    - two new studies idr0110 & idr0113
    - dropped the notebooks for idr0113 (to be added in prod100)
  - prod100
    - idr0108 (had last minute issues in prod99)
  - Embassy migration
    - beginning of September deadline
    - should have zero user impact
    - s3 may be more difficult. Needs discussing with EBI team. (in time for ngff samples)
  - JRS: training event feedback on public data
    - evaluations & feedbacks are in slack training channel
    - huge congrats

- NGFF (Josh)
  * https://ngff.openmicroscopy.org/latest updated (v0.1/v0.2 discrepancies)
    * Getting in touch with Constantin for v0.3 later this week
  * Preparing agenda for [next call](https://forum.image.sc/t/next-call-on-next-gen-bioimaging-data-tools-early-september-2021/55333/8)
    - sharding, clients, transformations, metadata
  * Paper...
  * Seb: WebKnossos driven by EM requirements

- Releases
  - nothing ready yet
  - upcoming on omero-web (thanks to Glencoe)
  - Josh: small fixes to omero-py/omero-insight
  - omero-cpp support?
    - Emil: interest in building it? Josh: forum user has expressed interest
    - Seb: in favor of being upfront if we cannot support
    - Emil: will look into what is broken and report next week
    - Josh: Cmake issue. Checkout + build omero-blitz for headers. Look into CMake finding the headers

- Glencoe (Emil)
  - Continuing on compression work (bioformats2raw)
  - investigation on auth for zarrs in s3 

- Community
  - JRS: invitations to in-person meetings is coming. Need to discuss our strategy.
  - Petr: applied for 2 workshops at TiM2022. deadset on in-person (March, Germany)

## AOB

- Laptops (Jason/June)