---
tags: Tuesday
---

# 2021-01-05

Attending: Will, Frances, June, David, Simon, Dominik, Josh, Jean-Marie, Kevin, Erin, Melissa, Jason, Wilma, Emil, Chris

Start: 2:00 pm UK

## Accepting minutes from [<u>last meeting</u>](https://github.com/ome/meeting-minutes)

## Project Status

(2-3 minutes each)

- IDR:
  - meeting this am - lots of Datasets
  - Next release: HPA run 9 and one other study
  - Jason: call with editorial board of E-life. Been in contact with other journals, PLOS... Aim to improve relationship with journals. Thursday 4pm.

- NGFF
  - Misc news.
    - [pangeo-forge](https://github.com/pangeo-forge/staged-recipes) could be useful
      - recipe for Dataset - yml files to describe pipeline etc
      - Useful for IDR data -> OME-Zarr
    - [zarr_implementations](https://github.com/constantinpape/zarr_implementations) (incl. rust but not js or jzarr).
      - We should contribute to this repo
      - e.g. regular testing of zarr js
  - Focus
    - light-sheet (3D) - e.g. idr0101. 3D chunking
    - high-level commentary on ngff work
      - Jason: Draft in progress, see https://docs.google.com/document/d/1loIsB036iGqxgCnUzCWx7bErv-gQvKPfHvVVbXoc36M/edit
      - Commentary - not full paper.
      - Authored by OME and Glencoe, potentially 
  - Misc
    - Chris - jzarr depend on netCDF core
      - Issues in BF with update from old version of netCDF

- Releases
  - JM: Done with github Actions, so now in good shape for releases.
  - Josh: looking at deployment of ansible roles

- SA

- Glencoe
  - jzarr work (see above)
  - Also done with migration to github actions.

- Community
  - Two workshops coming up

## AOB

(5 min. max; tech. Discussion should be highlighted to relevant people and rescheduled)
  - Lockdown again - look after yourselves
  - 

## Main Topic

(20-25 minutes plus 15 minutes questions max)
