---
tags: Tuesday
---

# 2021-12-14

Attending: Will, Seb, Chris, Josh, JM, Dom, Andreas, Petr, Khaled, Melissa, Kevin, Wilma, Erin, Emil

Start: 2:00 pm UK

## Accepting minutes from [last meeting](https://github.com/ome/meeting-minutes)

## Project Status

(2-3 minutes each)

- IDR (Seb):
  - IDR demo'd on Thursday (4DN workshop) - few glitches
    - back to normal state now
    - Spin up prod 104 soon
  - Discussion with 4DN group re genomic loci metadata
    - Will: good understanding and agreement of where we are now.
    - Josh: large use-cases coming  

- NGFF
  - OKRs
    - [Proposal for rnd settings](https://github.com/ome/omero-cli-render/issues/55#issuecomment-993355599). Issue to be created to spec repo
    - Validation - in-progress ngff PR open
    - Blog posts: first this year about what's done and then another early next year about the ongoing development
  - Timeline issues (Josh)
    - v0.4 timeline
      - implementations - MoBIE next year.
        - 27th Jan target for Java, python, vizarr
      - HCS
          - no major change to omero-cli-zarr. Primarily aligning packages
          - Spec changes - could be 0.3.1 or after 0.4?
      - testing
        - more tests for NGFF repos would be useful
    - [Next call](https://forum.image.sc/t/next-call-on-next-gen-bioimaging-data-tools-2022-01-27/60885) - jan 27th
        - Registration to be opened before end of year
    - [hackathon]( https://twitter.com/GlobalBioImage/status/1470320924075470850) - starting jan 31st
        - Occasion to finish some things
        - J-M: can list of participants grow if virtual? A priori yes

- Releases
  - Bio-Formats released last week. lots of collaborations
  - Leica work, expected release in Jan patch/minor?
  - How to update community to use in OMERO
  - JM: full OMERO release needed in due course to fix SNAPSHOT version included in last release of omero-server package.

- Glencoe
  - Bio-Formats, customer queries etc.
  - Holidays 23rd - 2nd

- Community
  - log4j fun
    - Thanks to Curtis for finding jars
    - Lots of loci_tools usage (searching github)


## AOB

  - Next meeting Jan 11th - Happy Holidays!

(5 min. max; tech. Discussion should be highlighted to relevant people and rescheduled)

## Main Topic

(20-25 minutes plus 15 minutes questions max)
