---
tags: Tuesday
---

# 2021-08-10

Attending: Petr, Josh, Dom, Will, Khaled, Frances, June, Wilma, Muhanad, David, Kevin, Jason, Melissa, Erin, 

Start: 2:00 pm UK

## Accepting minutes from [last meeting](https://github.com/ome/meeting-minutes)

## Project Status

(2-3 minutes each)

- IDR
  - released last week
  - now prod100 - 3 new studies
    - aim to release end of August
  - migration work ongoing
    - all pilots migrated
    - next release will be on new location

- NGFF
  - v0.2 Spinning up conversion again - idr -> s3
    - need to include HCS
  - v0.3 coming to completion. Several PRs open
  - v0.4 thoughts?
    - json-ld metadata work
    - Try to include json-ld markup in HCS output
  - Community call - early september
    - Do we want to present anything? Any questions?
    - Mostly Christian and Constantin
  - Jason: Glencoe doing a lot. Present at NGFF call? Will follow-up

- Releases
  - omero-web and Insight have PRs merged...

- Glencoe
  - background compression work nearing completion
  - authentication for zarr ongoing: napari-ome-zarr

- Community
    - [Crick BioImage Analysis Meeting](https://www.crick.ac.uk/whats-on/crick-bioimage-analysis-symposium-2021)

## AOB

 - nada

