---
tags: Tuesday
---

# 2021-03-23

Attending: Petr, Seb, Frances, Jean-Marie, June, Josh, Andreas, Will, Wilma, Melissa, David, Kevin, Erin, Chris, 

Start: 2:00 pm UK

## Accepting minutes from [last meeting](https://github.com/ome/meeting-minutes)

## Project Status

(2-3 minutes each)

- IDR:
  - prod95 released last week - fix + idr0106
  - lots of studies ongoing

- NGFF
  - Benchmark and paper (Thurs. deadline)
    - Suggestions for update to Figure 3 (instead of screenshots)
    - Some AWS issues outstanding
  - Few minor PRs (writer, etc.)
  - Spec discussions on going
    - e.g. plates/collections

- Releases
  - omero-py 5.9.1
  - bio-formats 6.6.1
  - few omero-web fixes
    - e.g. sparse plate layout options [omero-web PR](https://github.com/ome/omero-web/pull/270)

- Glencoe
  - bf2raw etc (RC-)release today or tomorrow
  - Include Josh's nested fixes? Auto-detection + other bug-fix
  - New readers coming soon

- OME2021
  - Save the date sent. 7th-11th June
  - Working on schedule - Seb/June/Josh/JM meeting on Tuesdays
  - Working on workshop (IDR) Thursdays at 10:00
  - Idea of 3rd-party demos
  - Keynotes
  - Pre-record workshops too
    - More webinar like rather than interactive demo
    - Would we sit through webinar?
    - Keeping timezones in mind if we want to repeat i.e. keep a single track
    - Will: how to handle people not having seen the video?
    - Petr - could do 'live' first time through, and video available for other timezones.

- Community
  - J-m to re-activate EBI training (12th of July)

## AOB

(5 min. max; tech. Discussion should be highlighted to relevant people and rescheduled)

## Main Topic

(20-25 minutes plus 15 minutes questions max)
