---
tags: Tuesday
---

# 2021-05-04

Attending: Petr, J-m, Seb, Josh, Dom, Melissa, June, David, Wilma, Will, Chris, Jason,  Kevin, Erin

Start: 2:00 pm UK

## Accepting minutes from [last meeting](https://github.com/ome/meeting-minutes)

## Project Status

(2-3 minutes each)

- IDR
  - Seb: released last pre-OME2021 version last week
  - Most datasets are in the verification process. Can re-evaluate if needed.
  - Ramping back up after the users meeting.
  - *However* have seen periodic outages since that release
    - Requires omero-web restart.
    - Have seen growing memory & DB locks.
    - Chris: one customer may be seeing that under systemd (5.9.1)
    - JRS: options? Seb: Testing this week. Potentially re-build IDR.
  - Looking into upgrade OMERO server on IDR
    - Some imports are incompatible with recent pattern file changes
  - seealso: weekly workshop discussions
    - J-m: have seen some limitations in OMERO.tables, etc. will become tickets.
    - in the process of making things "FAIR", using idr0094 to expose our work.

- NGFF - 14:09
  - zarr.R: tomorrow evening (7pm UK)
    - define single implementation of zarr
  - Nested: still a lingering bug. see zarr-python#709
    - Bug-fix PR in progress
  - ROIs: EOSS proposal
    - Polygons support
    - Bio-Formats-for-ROIs idea. Some interest elsewhere
    - Seb - looking for IDR sample data
  - 3D: most likely via dual pyramids.
    - Some PRs to re-visit
  - NDIM: interest in Bio-Formats API
  - Anything other features to focus on?
  - JRS: BioImage Ecosystem Advisory Panel
    - Status of BIA
    - NGFF, OMERO, and Bio-Formats for a public data resource

- Releases
  - Java docs PRs open TLS updates
  - Seb: probably alsoneeds announcement to increase awareness
    - Need to update client, use correct Java version etc.
  - JM: aim to use GHA to simplify docs release. 
      - Work nicely on omeroweb-install
      - need to rethink strategy after looking at server-installation.
  - Chris: need to link docs to PRs so we know what versions have which fixes etc.

- Glencoe
  - Conversion tools updates
  - Some feedback on ngff, directory separators etc.
  - napari fails with some nested data - or shows black
  - Needs better feedback for users
  - Josh: Should work with latest version of zarr.
  - Chris: do we want to support napari without ome-zarr-py?
  - Josh: probably not

- OME2021
  - Registration to open - today or tomorrow?
    - Please register when available
  - Workshops preparation in progress: Every Thursday at 10 am.
      - see IDR section for comments
      - On track for meeting. 

- Community
  - FYI: J-M working on project with EU-openscreen (as part of EOSC) using neo4j, orientdb. Could be useful later for OMERO 

## AOB

(5 min. max; tech. Discussion should be highlighted to relevant people and rescheduled)

- laptops
- MBP vv Windows laptop vv Windows Desktop

## Main Topic

(20-25 minutes plus 15 minutes questions max)
